For the better part of a year now, I've
been getting more requests than Santa
Claus for one specific thing, the return
of the moist meter, which is really
interesting to me because it's something
I've talked about a lot. I never stopped
reviewing films or anything, but I did
stop doing the moist meter and I thought
I talked about it in a video before, but
I know I've talked about it on stream
and I thought considering every comment
section anytime a movie comes out or a
game comes out asks when the moist meter
is going to drop. I I'm guessing that I
haven't done a great job at conveying
why I stopped doing it. So, I just want
to briefly go over the lore here because
people are asking all the time. They're
starting to ask Grock what happened to
the moist meter. To boil it down to just
the bare butt cheeks, I stopped doing it
because I didn't like having to come up
with an arbitrary number to associate
with whatever I was reviewing. And I
also didn't like that I felt restricted
in what I was able to talk about.
Because when it comes to reviews, most
people expect it to be spoilerfree. And
occasionally, I would dip my little
tootsies into spoilers for some of them,
but for the most part, on the whole, I
didn't. And honestly, I felt like it
made my reviews so fucking vague that
the number would make no sense
considering what I was talking around.
It like it like I tr like it really
dawned on me on stream and I went back
and looked at some of the scores I gave
things like The Mummy Movie with Tom
Cruz, that abomination. And I gave like
a 60% to Thor Love and Thunder, one of
my least favorite Marvel films. I also
gave like a fucking 65 or 72 or some
shit like that. It was unhinged lunacy.
I was terrible at associating a number
with my actual thoughts. And since I
would vaguely talk about things as
opposed to like actually explaining it,
it just it never really made sense. So
like a year ago, maybe a little under a
year, I don't know how long it's been
now, I just stopped doing it and instead
I've done reviews from a much simpler
perspective. Is it good? Is it worth
seeing? Is it worth buying? Is it
something I liked? And I will talk about
the entire kitten kaboodleoodle. I'm
going deep into the peanut butter and
the jelly of the sandwich. And I do talk
about spoilers. All kinds of spoilers
oozing out of my pores when I talk about
it. Of course, I do give like a spoiler
warning for people. I want to avoid it.
But I find it a lot more fun. I don't
feel forced to just kind of like vaguely
drop breadcrumbs around like a thought
because it might spoil it for somebody.
Now I'll bust the door down hanging
scroty and just rip the band-aid off so
that way I could just talk about
everything I want to in regards to the
movie or the game or whatever. I just
like that a lot more and I think it
makes the reviews a lot more
comprehensive without me coming up with
like a random number that makes no sense
at all. Now it's just a simple did I
like it? Was it good? Is it something I
would recommend buying or seeing? It's I
just think that's a much better review.
Like, I just don't see a ton of value in
just associating these numbers that I'll
fucking pop out of my melons here out of
nowhere that don't really mean anything.
So, that's why I stopped doing the moist
meter, but I never stopped reviewing
things. Like, just yesterday, I reviewed
Bring Her Back, which I think is one of
the best horror movies that's come out
in a long time. I literally put it up
there with one of my favorites,
Hereditary. So, I do still thoroughly
review things, more so now than ever.
And I'm a lot more enthusiastic about
doing that without feeling confined to
just really broadly ballpark talk around
something. Now, I'm getting into the
minutia of it when I'm reviewing shit
And of course, I'm still like a bumbling
Neanderthal, so it's not exactly like
your most academic reviews of these
films, but who gives a fuck It's still
like my lay man's thoughts on it and and
what I thought about them and I I don't
know. I just enjoy it a lot more. So,
while the moist meter is kind of buried
here, RIP to it, the legacy lives on and
I think has evolved in a much better
way. And while we're on the subject,
I'll go ahead and mention this for
probably like the fifth or sixth time
about infomercial dubs. Why did I stop
doing like the real series?
It's that one I think is extremely easy
to undress here because infomercials
don't really exist anymore. Like those
don't really get made all that often.
Like yeah, there's still commercials,
but not like the golden age of Anthony
Sully fucking Sullivan going ballistic
with some, you know, ridiculous sponge
or something. Those are not
really in existence anymore. They're
kind of extinct. AI might bring it back.
you know, a fucking AI Billy Maze that
they'll try and dust off or something
perhaps, but it's not like those are
common. So, there's literally no
infomercials left for me to do dubs for.
That's the only reason I stopped doing
that because they they're just not
around. And the ones that are, like the
very few that are sprinkled here and
there occasionally every year, are just
really boring and really lame. and
they're clearly catered to being made as
cheaply as possible and to be placed on
like the graveyard shift of someone
who's accidentally got the TV on on a
cable station at 4:00 a.m. There wasn't
some like big explanation for why that
just kind of, you know, reached a
screeching halt. It's just there's not
many of them left anymore and the ones
that are there just aren't very good.
And a lot of the infomercials are just
very sy. Like even the ones from back in
the day that I didn't make dubs on that
are still out there. It's for the most
part like the same kind of products like
some kind of non-stick pan, some kind of
sharp knife, some kind of mop or sponge
or vacuum. And I've done like three on
each of those different things already.
So, it's not fun to just do the same
infomercial every time. Again, though,
just wanted to talk about that moist
meter question that keeps getting asked
all the time. So hopefully this was a a
better explanation for it. That's really
about it. See you.