No, it's not. I've seen people
unironically comparing this to like Lord
of the Rings Gollum in terms of quality
and calling it like an asset flip and a
bunch of things like that about how
horrible it is. And I definitely think
it's over hated. But that being said,
it's not great either. I posted a video
yesterday for the first four hours of my
playthrough where I called it pretty
good. And now that I'm almost done with
it, I have three night lords left. I can
say it is still just pretty good. It's
fine. which in a from software catalog,
that's a big eyebrow raiser. That that's
very unusual. The reason I'm reviewing
it now, even with three night lords
still left on my plate, is because I
know even when I gobbled them up, my
opinion on it is not going to change
because the game isn't changing at all,
and it hasn't been for the last like 6
hours. After killing the second night
lord, everything else is just exactly
the same over and over and over again.
It's just getting really stale and it
has been for a while now. I don't regret
buying it and I'm still enjoying playing
through with my friends, but there are
some serious problems with this game.
Like I still don't think it's a bad game
by any means, but it is definitely one
of From Software's weakest games.
There's some baffling decisions too that
a lot of people are talking about with
no crossplay, even in a game that's all
about playing with friends and a co-op
experience. There's no communication
tools, which is inexplicable. And
there's also no duos. How the fuck does
that make sense? There's trios and
solos. That's it. I think they just
forgot about the option of having one
other friend as opposed to
two. Very odd. The game is just not
amazing. It's just pretty good. It's
fine. I'm still going to finish it on
stream tonight. Like, I want to make
sure I get the maximum juice for the
squeeze here. I got up and turned on the
display behind me so you could see that
I have tons and tons of From Software
memorabilia and accuchants. I am one of
the biggest FromSoftware glazers you
will find. It's rare that a From
Software sentence leaves my mouth
without their dick deep in my throat.
I'm a huge fan of their games. So, it
pains me to say that Night Rain, I
think, is more of a miss than it is a
hit. Its biggest saving grace is it's
not a full price title. It's $40, but
even then, as I've been saying on
stream, I think 40 is still a little
expensive for the experience this
offers. I'd say after you defeat your
first two Night Lords, which will take
most people, I imagine three, maybe four
hours, you've experienced everything
this game has to offer. It's a co-op
boss rush, gauntlet, roguel, like all of
these terms I'm using extremely loosey
goosey because it is malnourished in all
of those departments. To break down the
gameplay loop, you and two friends will
queue up for an adventure, or really
lack thereof, an adventure. And god
forbid if you don't have two people to
party up with and you play this solo,
you're in for a miserable time based on
all the people that are talking about
the agony of solo. So, if you are going
to play this without friends, I would
say at least random queue. You can just
publicly queue. That's going to be your
best bet. I haven't even tried it solo.
I couldn't imagine. But once you queue
up, you will choose between one of eight
classes. is the classes offer some
skills that you will utilize and they
excel in different things. And then you
enter the Elden Ring map, the same map
that you're familiar with. And you drop
in and as a storm is approaching, it
corrals you like sheep fucking herds you
into a central spot at the end where
after killing a bunch of enemies and a
bunch of bosses, all of which are
recycled from Elden Ring. The only
difference is there's a few new move
sets for some of them. But after doing
that and getting randomized loot, the
storm pushes you into a central location
where you fight a boss at the end of day
one. And you do the same thing,
repeating that again on day two where
you will fight a boss at the end of day
two. And then after that, if you're
successful in defeating it, you will
then fight a night lord. After fighting
a night lord, your run ends whether you
win or lose. The night lords are new and
some of them are cool. A lot of them are
bad. The f the fourth night lord in
particular is I think one of the worst
from software bosses we've seen since
fucking bed of chaos. It's not like a
gimmick boss or anything. It is just so
boring. It is a flying jellyfish
amalgamation of ass and poop that just
flies around forever and will
occasionally touch down and it spawns
some little hands and it pisses water at
you sometimes. But the only way it seems
to fight it is by picking the archer or
anyone with range because otherwise you
just don't have any real windows to
attack it and it'll occasionally drop a
nuke. I hate that boss. It only took
It's not a hard boss. It only took two
tries to kill it. like we killed it on
our second try. It's just so boring and
tedious, but some of the other night
lords are cool. Like even the first
night lord I think is cool, but for some
reason it feels like some of them really
took a page out of Elden Beast where
they're always running away from you,
which just isn't fun. But anyway, that's
the entire gameplay loop. You spend two
days on the Elden Ring map that you're
already familiar with fighting the
enemies you've already fought a million
times and then you'll fight the night
lord and you get randomized drops. You
will get relic drops at the end of a
night lord attempt and the relics are
used in your classes through like your
urns or your your goblets and you will
set up like your buffs going into each
run to make your character stronger. Now
my biggest complaint here is how every
run feels exactly the same. You drop
into the same map albeit in different
locations but your route usually kind of
stays the same. The enemies change a
little bit but not often. There are some
enemies that are always going to be in
the same locations, it seems, no matter
what. And the bosses that you encounter
at the end of day one and day two, like
there's only like five total, it feels
like I've seen every single one of them
multiple times. And I've done only like
11 expeditions in total, I think. Maybe
maybe only 10. And I've seen every
enemy, every boss, and I've killed
almost every Night Lord. There's just
not a whole lot of meat on the bones
here. And every run, like I said, feels
the same. The loot is very
underwhelming. Like some of the weapons
are great, the weapons that you already
know from Elder Ring, of course, but
they're really fun to use and they
synergize well with some of the skills,
especially like Duchess. I like playing
Duchess. She's one of the classes you
can choose from. And last night in by
far the best run I've had, I got an
Elanora's poleblade drop, which made me
feel really strong cuz it worked really
well with the stopwatch, where I'd get a
bleed proc, and then I'd immediately pop
that skill, the stopwatch, which
basically just repeats all of that
damage. So, I get another bleed proc
basically. It just I was chunking the
fuck out of them. I was eating their
lunch and it felt great. But that was
also the first time so far across my
entire uh like 12 or so hours that I
ever felt strong, which is another huge
complaint where in rogue likes you feel
like you're getting really powerful. And
there's so much variety to the builds
based on like the randomized drops that
you will be getting. they steer your
build path and what you're trying to do.
In Night Rain, every drop just feels so
trivial and it never really makes you
think. It never really makes you have to
even like consider a build option really
because pretty much all of it feels very
lazy. Most of like the passive buffs you
get from killing a boss are just
increased stamina, increased stamina
recovery speed, increased maxed health.
Like that's not fun. That's really
underwhelming. There are occasionally
some cool ones that were there. They're
very rare though, but there are some
where they'll have effects when you're
walking. I actually made an entire
walking build cuz I got really lucky
with walking drops. So, I made a walk
maxing build where when I walked, I
spawned raids, madness, and reign of
arrows. And that was the first time
where I had like a lot of fun and really
was like, "Oh, there's potential here.
This could have really worked if we had
more things like this." But that is the
only run at all that had anything even
slightly resembling some creativity and
a like a interesting build because
everything else you see is more
eyeframes on a dodge or increased uh
status ailment resistance, less frost
buildup, that kind of fucked. It's really
boring stuff there. I'm not being
exaggeratory. I've only seen a handful
of drops that are more than just number
changes, like the walking ones I
mentioned. There's also some rolling
ones. There's one at the start of
sprint, and I think that's pretty much
it that I can think of off the top of my
head. Every other like passive buff
you'll find after defeating a boss is
just numbers. More poise, maybe. Uh
faster stamina recovery. That's really
it. Oh, one more. I just thought of
successive attacks, uh, healing a bit,
but like again, the vast majority of
what you're going to find, the main
bread and butter of the roglike random
drops you'll see are increase HP, that
kind of shit Outside of the buffs
though, obviously the weapons are random
drops that come with a buff attached to
them. So, you're going to be hoarding,
you're going to be filling out your
whole inventory with weapons because
those buffs will apply even if you're
not using them unless uh some of them
specify. So, even those buffs are pretty
lame though. It's again increase damage
on ranged attacks, uh increase crit
damage, that kind of thing. They're just
not fun randomized drops. They're just
not. The weapons are the best drops, but
they're weapons you already know, you
know, like it's nothing. I don't think
they really cooked when it came to rogue
like here. I I don't think they really
nailed the assignment, which is the
antithesis to what rogue likes are
supposed to be, where the most exciting
thing is the randomized buffs or
randomized gear that you're going to get
that's going to dictate the build that
you want to try and make work and it
makes you feel stronger and it makes
each run feel unique. here that is just
completely gone because all of those
like passive buffs and shits are just
number increases. Like it's not
interesting. The most interesting drops
are the weapons, but it's weapons you've
already used before. Like they're not
new in that regard. Like there's new
things you can do with them like
synergizing with skills, but there's
like nothing really creative about the
roglike element of this. It's just so
weak in that department. And it's not
just that. As I mentioned, the relics
that you get after defeating a night
lord or even failing against night lord,
you still get the drops. Those relics
that you put onto your character that's
supposed to like bump them up and make
them feel stronger. It feels really
negligible. Dexterity plus three, fizz,
attack up, uh, successive shots,
increase stamina, which I thought
sounded really strong, but in testing
you don't even notice a difference
whether you have it or not. It does not
make a noticeable difference at all.
It's so trivial. Like the buffs there
from the relics are so minuscule. There
are some that do make a difference. Like
some of them will give your starting
weapon a status ailment like poison.
Like when you kill the butterfly,
scorpion voltron force the fucking
Gundam. When those two fuse, that's one
of the night lords. When you kill them,
you get that relic which will start your
weapon with poison. That does make a
difference. You can see that. That does
feel right. Equilibrius beast drops
something where when you take a drink of
a flask, if you sip an Estus, it will
heal your party around you too also.
That makes a difference. You can feel
those. But those are very rare. Again,
most of it is just random number go up a
little bit and you don't see a
difference in your runs at all. And your
builds never ever really change. It only
matters what weapons you get. So, you'll
constantly just be trying to get the
weapon that has the best buff attached
to it because even if you're not holding
that weapon, even if you're not using
it, you'll still have it active and
applied to you. Unless, of course, it
has like the red hand icon. That means
you have to be holding it to get the
buff. But those are like the only things
that matter. The other ones that you get
like outside of weapons again are just
flat numbers or like some defense that
you're never even going to feel. It's
just sad cuz there is potential here.
After playing this, I can see like a
good vision if they had just put more
time and creativity into the actual
roglike elements of better, more
interesting drops that lead to
interesting builds like the walking
build that I cooked up. That could have
made it much more fun. Even though you
are fighting the same enemies you fought
a million times, it's still good
gameplay. It's still Elden Ring
gameplay, so it still feels nice and it
is fun to play with friends. Like, I
have been enjoying it playing with the
playing with Dankin and Scoots. It's
just it's such a game light with
content. Like you are actually just
doing the same thing every expedition
which runs so counter to all of the
other rogue likes that I love. I will
say though I'm very impressed with how
well the game functions. I thought given
previous from software titles the
multiplayer would be like laggy or not
super serviceable. It is smooth as fuck
here. I mean this this is smooth as my
fucking taint to be honest. I have not
had any big lagging issues outside of a
couple rare instances. Well, I'll take
that back. The second night lord, the
gaping jaw, he has one move where he
like phase shifts into like jumping in
the air and spawning a bunch of
lightning. Every single time he uses
that move, you are guaranteed to
temporarily freeze during it, which is a
big headache. But outside of that, no
real lagging issues or anything like
that. But it is completely devoid of all
communication tools in game. The best
you can do is ping your teammates. So,
if you are someone who's playing without
friends and you're going to solo queue,
just know it's you're basically playing
death. You're not going to be able to
talk to your teammates. You'll just have
to try and read their minds and follow
their pings. That's about it. There's no
communication tools at all for like
teamwork, which is pretty dumb in a game
that's all about co-op. I won't keep
yapping about it and I know already some
people are going to be really mad that
I've criticized a from software game
fake fan because nowadays you have to
like blindly love everything if you're a
fan of that project or that property or
that company and if you don't then
you're excommunicado like fucking John
Wick universe. But like I said I am
enjoying the game. It's just not great.
Like it is just kind of weak. It it just
is. I'm sorry. There are problems here.
If you're enjoying it, all power to you.
I am as well. But I can tell you after I
finish the next Night Lord, I won't be
going back anytime soon. Unless they add
like a ton of new content to it or
something over time, then maybe I'll
return. But there's just not a whole lot
here to keep me coming back. Like doing
the remembrance quests, I don't really
care about. I don't really give a fuck
It's just once again repeating the same
expedition every fucking time and it
never really feels all that great. So
anyway, I don't think the game is bad. I
don't. Sorry to go against the grain
there with a lot of people saying how
bad the game is. I don't think it is. I
think it's fine. Just fine. The biggest
thing to me is it doesn't feel like
there was a whole lot of elbow grease
put into this one to make something
special. It feels more like it was just
an afterthought of a project. And
ultimately, the product feels more like
a mod for Elden Ring than a new addition
to it. I think $40 is still too much for
what this has to offer. So, that's
really about it. See you.