I love talking about aliens. I cover
alien news with a brilliant energy. It's
something that's near and dear to my
heart. My father is a firm believer in
those extraterrestrial bastards having
built the pyramids. And it leads to some
great dinnertime conversations between
the two of us. And it's all in good fun
and good spirit. And I like to keep my
finger on the pulse of anything alien
related. So, you know, I'm going to talk
about this latest invasion of UAP
spheres that are taking over Colombia. I
covered the first sighting not that long
ago where there was this sphere that was
flying around being all spooky and scary
and then it eventually softly lands
itself in a field and a shirtless dude
comes over, picks it up and puts it on
his bed in a blanket with his nipples
hanging out like his fucking pepperonis
on full display next to this iron
colander.
And then a preposterous video that
people really firmly believe in because
the followup really helped sell the dog
shit where they had these scientists
analyzing this conundrum of a of a
spacecraft. This tiny little like
Pokeball, this like steel Pokeball. They
take it to like a laboratory where
they're running tests on it and shit. It
was the dumbest thing, but people really
believed it. But now we're back for
round two, the remix. It's happening
again with a new sphere being spotted.
The Yumbo sphere. I guess these 2 cm
tall aliens are launching a full-scale
apocalyptic invasion of Colombia here. I
don't know what they hope to accomplish.
Maybe they're visiting Earth so
frequently so they can get their hands
on our precious cheeky soap. Go to
usecheky.com to get some soap. They
could have just gone there without
having to make all of these stops in
Colombia if they really wanted it that
badly. Maybe they're here on vacation.
Who knows? But the subreddit is going
ballistic over once again another one of
these spheres.
There they are.
They're among us. They've made it to
Earth.
And they came in their favorite marble.
Here it comes. It's wrapping back
around.
What is that? Aliens. They're inside
there. They're just very small. They're
very tiny.
I could eat those little bastards like
gingerbread men. That's why they're
protecting themselves in that iron
soccer ball.
It's the Death Star pretty much.
Look at how clear it is.
You can almost see them in there waving
at us.
[Music]
Checkmate, non-believers.
At last, irrefutable evidence of aliens
here. This is compelling evidence. No
doubt shaking some people's belief in
God. This is terrifying footage here. So
many questions left unanswered. What do
they want with us? Do they come in
peace? Are they aggressive? Are they
here to fuck my farts? Like, what what
is their goal? What's the endgame here?
I I I don't even know where to begin,
but if I if I was to start to spitball
some some thought experiments, do you
think it's a coincidence that the
previous sphere goes extremely viral,
gets a lot of headlines, and now all of
a sudden we're seeing very similar
spheres in a very short period of time?
Does that not seem like a bit of a kinky
dink? Does that not seem like, you know,
something's a little fishy with that? Or
do you I guess it could be a case of
like the aliens really enjoyed their
stay after being captured by the
shirtless dude. So now he, you know,
reported back to HQ and now they're
sending all the all the spring breakers
from the cosmos. So now all of them are
coming. Maybe perhaps. Now I'll drop the
sarcasm for a second. There are
innumerable ways you can fake this kind
of footage, but I'm going to go out on a
limb and say that it is practical here.
I I really think they used real props.
And someone in the comment section on
that subreddit actually did drop a video
with a demonstration on how you can
easily fake this using a drone and then
just some kind of strong fishing line to
pick up your homemade DIY sphere. So
here in the footage you can see the
drone lifting it up and as it dangles it
around you're going to notice some
really uncanny similarities to the Yumbo
sphere video. The way that it just kind
of aimlessly moves around. Now of course
the further the drone gets away the more
you see. But when it's close to the
camera, all you can see is the sphere
and it looks like it's flying on its own
power. But you know that's not the case
here because you've already seen the
drone. And you'll notice when you go
back to the Yumbo sphere video, the
camera is always zoomed in in a way
where you can't see that high above it.
It zooms out occasionally. You can see
like a decent bit above it, but never
like the full sky. So, it's very
possible that the drone was just very
high overhead with a really long piece
of fishing line or some other string in
order to hold it that wouldn't be easily
observable by the naked eye in the
video. Now, further evidence to kind of
confirm this theory is when you come to
around a minute into the video, you'll
see that they're doing this whole air
show. They're not showing any signs of
intelligent flight. They're just kind of
doing loops around here, seemingly for
the cameraman to appreciate and jerk off
to. But then at around a minute 13
seconds, as we zoom in here on the Yumbo
sphere, you can see it wobbling. Why the
fuck would it be wobbling? If this is a
spacecraft that is flying under its own
power with its own uh incomprehensible
propulsion system, why would it be
wobbling? Unless the aliens are just
drunk driving, sloshed behind the wheel
of this shit that doesn't check
out. However, it would be wobbling if it
was being carried by a drone. Now, of
course, this isn't the only way to fake
this footage. There are tons and tons of
ways this could easily be fake. And I
think one of the big things that should
be setting off a lot of alarm bells in
people's brains is how frequently these
fear videos are now popping up because
they got so popular with that first one
in Colombia. There is now from yesterday
another sphere spotted in China and it's
exactly the same as the two I just
showed you. Well, the one I just showed
you and then the one I covered two
months ago. It is exactly the same. What
are the odds that now we have three of
these videos in such a short period of
time all of identical spacecraft all
doing exactly the same thing of just
mindless wandering aimlessly
and nothing comes from that. Nothing at
all. Maybe it's because it's fucked.
I'm gonna be real brave here and say I
don't think these spheres are actually
from, you know, the ninth quadrant of
Andromeda from the pervert cosmic
three-titted aliens out there trying to
pay us a visit by I I guess just in like
this stuper going back and forth over
blades of grass and a bunch of different
locations across Colombia and in China.
I I know that sounds crazy for me to say
that that it's not actually aliens, but
I don't think it is. I think these are
just easy to do viral videos. You need
three objects. A drone, fishing line,
and then your own little homemade
sphere, which you could easily do by
gluing two fucking dog bowls together if
you wanted to. It doesn't even have to
be that thorough or convincing. They're
not even doing anything remarkable. If
they were going like 400 mph back and
forth just zipping and zapping all over
the place, that'd be a little harder to
explain with the drone theory. But they
are going at such a trivial pace. You
could outwalk these things. It is
clearly for the sake of these videos and
nothing else. Put on your thinking caps.
I'm begging. These are not aliens. But
really good job from the hoaxers that
have convinced so many people that they
are. Very successful endeavor from them.
And I'm sure they made a pretty penny
off the viral videos. That's really
about it. See you.