All right, you win. I'll roll over and
show you my belly. I submit. My arm has
been getting twisted by tons of people
demanding that I speak about the Sydney
Sweeney bathwater soap. Apparently, it
sold out in seconds. It's uh taken taken
the world by storm as the utmost
authority on both bathwater and soap.
People are turning to my expert analysis
here to weigh in on this subject.
Obviously, I have my own soap, Cheeky,
which is far better than this horse
hockey. Cheeky is the best soap in the
universe that we've made. But don't just
take my word for it. Go to usech
cheeky.com right now and get some soap
for yourself to try it out. It'll change
your life for the better. This topic
isn't meant to just be a vessel to glaze
cheeky. It's just because I have that so
many people keep emailing about this
Sydney Sweeney stuff, so I had to
mention it. It's become extremely clear
that Sydney Sweeney has teamed up with
these schmucks over there at Dr. Squatch
just for this big marketing campaign
here. Now, I think had she known about
Cheeky, we're kind of new to the scene,
but had she known about us, she would
have been sprinting over here bearing
bathwater, begging to be part of the
squad, part of the crew, part of the
ship, and we would have embraced that
with open arms. And I'm not here saying
that we're shutting the door in her face
because I'm sure she's going to make the
correct decision and be on the right
side of soap history eventually. Uh but
for now, she's with Dr. Squatch for
these soap bars and she's kind of like
the spokesperson for them at the moment.
So anyway, this has clearly been a very
successful marketing campaign with the
whole Sydney Sweeney bath water infused
soap bars. Allegedly, it uses some of
her actual bath water and sprinkles it
into each bar and it's medium grit. So,
the idea is you'll have like those
little speckles in there that you'll
wash yourself with or worship. Hey Arnold bubblegum
tribute to Sydney Sweeney in your closet
or whatever. This is obviously heavily
influenced, I'm going to use that word,
real loosey goosey here, by one of the
goats of Gooning, Bel Deline's stunts
from back in 2019 when she sold her bath
water in jars. Now, Bel Deline was a
pioneer in the industry. If eg girls
were athletes, then she's fucking Babe
Ruth. She was the great bambino. She
wrote the book on how to hose gooners
for their piggy banks. She is like the
John Madden when it comes to these
plays. And now Sydney Sweeney basically
just ripped a page out of that book and
tried to replicate that success and
succeeded at replicating it. The
bathwater soap bars are apparently
selling extremely well. So well in fact
that there is a secondary market for it
on eBay as there always is for
everything ever from these fucking people
scalping Sydney Sweeney bath water here
where they are reselling the soap bars
for over $200 a piece. 200 clams for
this this bathwater soap. And not only
that, there are people shamelessly
selling pictures of it for $30. I'm just
going to say this right now. If you are
one of these pathetic souls that spends
$30 buying a picture of Sydney Sweeny's
Bathwater soap bar, you need to be
institutionalized right now for your own
good. You have got to go straight to
Arkham Asylum. Holy shit That would be
the saddest existence on this planet. If
you go to eBay and spend 30 dealloons on
a fucking picture of Sydney Sweeny's
bathwater soap, that is the lowest you
can ever sink as a human being. Maybe
you can honestly look at this as
something inspirational. No matter how
bad you feel about yourself or whatever
you're going through, maybe your
self-esteemes in the shitter just know
you are not as pitiful and worthless as
the people that are going to spend $30
on a picture of Sydney Sweeny's
bathwater soap bar and that should
uplift your spirits on the spot.
Interestingly enough, Sydney Sweeney
claims that this was actually her idea
to use her actual bath water in the soap
bars. She said, "I think it's more fun
to see everyone else talk about it. I
pitched it. You kept asking about my
bath water after the Dr. Squatch ad, so
we kept it." So, she is claiming that
this was her brainchild here with these
soap bars. And I was a little
disappointed to see that she didn't give
credit to Belle Belelfine. I feel like
there is no way this is just a big old
kinky dink. I don't think that it's, you
know, just pure happen stance that she
is also using bath water for the soap. I
feel like she must have at least heard
about the Belelfine bath water because
that has become ingrained in like
internet culture as part of like you
know the epitome of gooning like when
you reach terminal gooner like you know
melted core defcon one goon status that
has always been propped up. I feel like
she must have heard about that or maybe
someone at Dr. Squatch may have even
like mentioned it in passing and she
thought it was a cool idea. I just find
it a little hard to believe that it had
nothing to do with the the path Beline
blazed the the trailblaze that she made
back in 2019. But I do think it is
possible cuz her ad she was in a
bathtub. So maybe she's like, "Oh, this
would be kind of silly to take this bath
water and put it in the soap bars to
market it to people that are like
desperately salivating over me." It's
possible, but I do think it's unlikely.
I want to briefly compare this bathwater
soap to Bel Deli's biological weapon
from back in the day. So, with the soap,
I obviously don't have it on hand. I
didn't purchase any. I didn't attempt to
or anything like that, but just having
soap that has bath water apparently in
it. They claim that it's there. There's
of course no scientific way of proving
that whatever bathwater presence there
was actually graced by Sydney Sweeny's
ass or anything like that, but taking
them at their word, you're getting a bar
of soap with that in it. So, I'm
assuming that it's going to still be
like functional as a bar of soap.
Belffine's bath water was concentrated
bathwater extract in a jar. So, you
couldn't really do anything with it
besides just appreciate it for the
safety hazard it was. I guess if you
were brave enough, you could chug it.
Like, you could drink it and give
yourself E. coli if you really wanted
to. But once again, there was never any
like hard concrete way of proving that
what you got shipped even back then was
actually Bel
Belli's, you know, fucking water, you
know, and you can't do that here either.
Though I do remember from back in 2019,
if I remember correctly, she had like
filmed herself bathing with the water
and jarring it. I don't think the same
was done here for the the soap bars from
Sydney Sweeney. I don't know if you get
like a certificate of authenticity with
every bar, as well as proof where she
has like a video of her in lab goggles
and a syringe extracting the bath water
and then using it in the soponification
process for the bar making. Couldn't
tell you. All I know is that the
products bear very similar DNA. Whereas
Bel Deli was more expensive, you
probably got more bang for your
bathwater buck. In this case, you get
like microscopic amounts of Sydney
Sweeny's bathwater allegedly. So, you
know, I'm not here to try and sell you
one way or the other on Belffine's
ancient bathwater brew versus, you know,
the the most recent one with Sydney
Sweeney. I was just, you know, giving
you my perspective as someone who's seen
both of these unfold in real time.
Something I found interesting though is
just how closely history repeats itself.
When Bel Deline did this back in 2019,
it was very controversial. It led to a
huge conversation where everyone was
like debating and like furious about the
whole thing, like getting mad. And now
that Sydney Sweeney is doing it with the
soap here, even more people are like
upset about it. And it's apparently very
controversial because now she's like an
actual actress. She's like a full-blown
celebrity whereas Belfine was more of
like the egirl celeb. So is a little
more niche. Sydney Sweeney opens this
Goonar degeneracy, you know, Pandora's
box to a lot more people that were maybe
previously unaware. So this has become
even more controversial than the Bel
Deline bath water, which I found really
interesting because I thought a lot of
people would look at this and just kind
of write it off as like been there, done
that, kind of lame. and the novelties
worn off. I was very wrong with that
assumption. That is not what's happened
at all. It is once again blown up like
in a pretty big way. Like not to, you
know, front front page headlines or
anything, but since she has so many fans
as a full-blown A-list celebrity, a lot
of people are like expressing
disappointment in her for doing this and
stooping so low as opposed to just
viewing it as like a light-hearted silly
thing or like a joke. I don't know. I
just found that kind of interesting cuz
I didn't expect it to be like a big deal
for her. I highly doubt this does any
damage to her brand or anything. I don't
think she's going to lose roles over
doing something like this like a lot of
people are claiming that she just threw
away her whole reputation with this. I
think that is severely exaggerated. I'm
sure her career will be just fine after
the the bathwater soap. I I just found
it fascinating how this was once again a
big deal. I didn't expect it to be.
That's really about it. See you.