If you've ever gone into a YouTube
comment section over the last couple
months, the title immediately made sense
to you what this video was going to be
about. If you've ever wandered into the
comment section on any of my videos or
plenty of others across the platform, no
doubt you have seen this at the very top
about Isabella, a 15-year-old from
California with cancer and how the
survival rate's really low. They're very
scared and they made a video talking
about the struggle and it'll be the last
one they make. that has been the top
comment on every one of my new uploads
for a couple of months now. And it's
also the top comment on a ton of other
videos I've seen across the platform. It
is always at the top because the likes
are botted. It's always from different
accounts because the accounts keep
getting banned because they're fake
accounts. This is clearly a bot. I don't
even think the most scenile octagenarian
would see that comment and start
shedding tears about how it tugged on
their heartstrings because they believed
it. I promise you the amount of people
that have read that and actually like,
you know, responded like they just got a
fucking Amber Alert like, "No,
Isabella." And they fucking sprint out
the door to try and support this channel
to the best of their ability is probably
very low. You can probably count the
amount of people that have fallen for it
on one hand. But it's still very
annoying. It's just a big headache that
is also a symptom of a larger problem
that the platform struggled with for
years, which is bots. I've covered this
at least once a year for the last five
years because of how bad it's gotten and
it es and flows. Sometimes it gets
extremely bad like where bots were
sharing illegal material through the
comment section and then it's it seemed
like YouTube kind of put the kibos on it
on the back end. But now those bots are
back and now even more bots seem to have
infested the comment section with like
the Isabella bitch and also the porn bots
that'll just copy a real comment and
paste it as their own. Like it is a huge
issue and every single time like
clockwork that it starts to get really
bad flares up people blame the YouTuber.
So, right now, people for a while have
been saying, "I've done nothing about
the bots in the comments, talking about
how I'm just letting it rot down there."
Even leading to people putting their
words in my ass about how I'm doing it
on purpose. Well, you see, Charles is
doing this because it helps boost the
amount of comments, which is good for
the algorithm. So, he's clearly okay
with these bots down there because it
helps the video.
He's totally fine with letting it go to
the birds because it helps boost the
comment numbers, which is a crazy take,
but it's spoken with so much authority
and confidence from people that are so
wrong that I almost can't help but be
impressed by the hubris. This is
something I literally talk about once a
year because there is only so much you
can do. When these bots start getting
this out of control, it's not as easy as
just somehow banning all of them. There
are tens of thousands of these accounts
and new ones being made every second.
That's just not feasible. Not even Queso
could ban that many accounts. So, what
you do instead is you ban words and
characters. So, last time this was a
huge issue. Matt and I did this massive
repository of so many words and phrases
and like characters that people used to
try and get like around the like
blacklist filter so they they could like
still spam all of the terrible shit and
we blocked those. But clearly they have
now found ways around it. Thus, a new
solution needs to be brought into
fruition here that I have yet to find. I
could ban the word Isabella, but they'll
just change the name. So, it'll go from
Isabella to Gertrude or something, but
it doesn't actually solve the bot
problem. It is a very difficult problem
to tackle because of how widespread the
issue is. YouTube itself would have to
do something on its back end to try and
make it more difficult to have all of
these botted accounts making millions of
comments all the time. It's difficult
and it's not something that I'm just
like ignoring or unaware of. I clearly
see it. It's just there's not a ton of
ways for me to combat it beyond what I'm
already doing and what I've already
done. they are always getting more and
more sophisticated and finding different
ways around the protocol to stop them.
So, it's just tough. Also, another thing
very interesting about the behavior of
the Isabella bot in particular is you'll
notice on almost all of the top comments
from it, it is edited. So, another thing
it does is it doesn't always bot likes.
It'll sometimes copy and paste a
legitimate comment that was gaining
traction, post it as its own, give it
some kind of boost, and then people will
organically like it thinking that it was
like a real person that made it, then
they edit the comment to be Isabella.
So, it's not always the same every
single time. Often times, it'll be like
a bait and switch like, "You thought I
was just a normal bot copy and pasting?"
Ah, actually, Isabella.
So these bots are not as simple as a lot
of people make them out to be and they
are not as easy to stop as a lot of
people say they are with just like
banning them or like blacklisting some
of the words. That is what we have tried
and they are still finding ways around
it. And you can't ban every single bot
because again it takes less than 5
seconds for these bot farms to just make
a new one and just start a new account.
So, it is a tricky thing to fix. And
yes, despite what a couple people will
lead you to believe, I am trying to do
something about it so it stops being all
over the comment section on every video
I post. It's just not easy. Anyway,
though, that's really about it. See you.