I lost something once. My identity. And
I just learned that I lost that last
night on stream. Apparently, there's an
Instagram page that a lot of people have
been following thinking it's my official
Instagram. And it's account. It's an
account that has paid subscriptions
enabled on it as well as it sells fake
merch and Pokemon cards. Now, I don't
know if it's fraudulent bootleg Pokemon
cards or if they're also just a scalper
as a side hustle, but it's an account
that has no mention of just being like a
fan account or anything. It is one that
is hoodwinking people into thinking it's
actually me. It's this little stinker
right here. This is not my account. It
does not belong to me. And last night,
it was filled to the brim out the wazoo
with content from my ass. And this
morning, it's all been banished to the
shadow realm. So, I'm guessing they
caught a whiff of me on their trail and
decided to, I guess, burn the evidence.
Now, I've made my stance on re-uploaders
clear over the years. I do not give a
flying fuck if you want to re-upload my streams
or video moments, make compilations,
whatever. And I don't care if you make
money doing it either. What I do care
about though is the deception when
you're trying to obscure the fact that
you're not actually me and you're not an
actual page, like an official one of
mine, trying to use my skin like a flesh
and just crawl inside here and start
confusing and misleading people into
thinking that it's actually me behind
the screen. This is a verified account.
A one of my friends, a friend I actually
know in real life, followed this account
thinking it was mine. I had to talk to
him this morning to ask if he had like
had conversations with this account
thinking it was me over the years. Could
have been talking to people in DMs
pretending that it's me. Could have been
promoting pumpf fun shitcoin rug pulls.
Like there are just so many problems
with this accepting brand deals as me.
Also something that could have very
realistically happened. I have no way of
knowing if it did or not since now he's
scrubbed the whole the whole page, but
it very realistically could from all
these like sketchy brands that'll reach
out and ask for like an Instagram post
for 500 bucks. He could have easily
taken those under the pretense that they
were working with me for it. It's it's a
hu it really is like an actual big deal.
This goes far above some of the other
channels in the past that used to
reupload my content and then copyright
strike each other, which was also
fucked, messy and degenerate. But this
is a different level. Uh, my actual
Instagram page is this one here. And I
want to just go down this whole rabbit
hole because it all unfolded on stream
where I learned about all of this. It's
It's wild. Does Instagram pay well? I
noticed you got subscriptions set up.
The fuck I do? What are you talking
about? Got subscriptions set up. No, I
do not. Where are you seeing that, bro?
Might be following a scam account. Which
one you Yeah, wait. What's the name of
the account you're following? It's $299
a month. It's your official account.
Wait, tell me the name of it. What's
What's my official account? Are those
fake pages making subscription
tiers? I don't really care if there's
like other pages that like repost my
shit and whatever. That doesn't really
bother me. But that's if they're making
like subscription tiers and shit then
that's a
problem. I knew this account existed.
Where are you
seeing Where are you seeing
subscriptions?
Let me just go on it on the phone. I'm
just assuming the browser doesn't show
everything. That's not my account. Holy
shit You're right. This absolute
scoundrel. Yeah, he has subscriptions
turned on on this Instagram account. A
bunch of your friends follow the
account, so I thought it was yours. The
fuck do you mean? Wait, a bunch of my
friends. Who follows that account? What
do you mean a bunch of my friends follow
it? There's no way Chase and Aaron
follow that account. Lwig, I could
believe falling for that, though. that I
could definitely see lead falling for
that. Turning on subscriptions, though,
that's that's
diabolical. Holy shit So, I'm looking
at the page. This page also follows
Lewig back. I bet you I actually bet you
Lewig has been talking at some point to
the fake critical page, the moist
critical Instagram account, thinking
it's me. I am confident he has. That
same fuckery was happening on YouTube, too,
to a lesser degree. I don't really care
if like the re-uploaders make money off
like re-uploading shit. That doesn't
bother me. But there was a time when the
re-uploaders were fighting amongst
themselves with like copyright strikes
to each other on the re-uploads and then
trying to deceive people into thinking
it was like official stuff. Then it just
gets so
messy and it's just a fucking problem.
While back a bunch of the reaction
channel, a bunch of the reaction
channels had membership options. Yeah,
the reuploader ones. I
know. I remember. But even that's a
little different. If they're just
upfront like unofficial re-upload page
of clips and shit that's one thing.
It's another to try and pretend that
it's the official page. Fuck Can you
imagine what if Jennifer Lawrence
reached out to that Instagram account
thinking it was me? What if she What if
she reached out to that to try and get
me a role in the upcoming Hunger Games
thinking it was me?
I don't know how the Instagram
verification works, but there's
certainly something
arai that could use a little sprucing
up. Wait, can you see that? Bro, look at
the subscriber only post. There's
There's literally only one and it's
promoting some random prisoner lady who
can apparently text through the Zangi
app. How can I see the subscription
posts? Yeah, I saw that. I thought it
was a meme post by you. It's in media.
Let me see here. Maybe I'll just bring
it into a tab there.
Here. This is Cheyenne. You can message
her by downloading and messaging her
through the Zangi app. So, she's a
prisoner. And then the account said,
"Thoughts on messaging prisoners? Cool
or not
cool?" His Tik Tok is linked as well. It
has subscriptions active as well. No
shot. That can't be real. He also has a
Tik Tok shop linked where he sells a
bunch of dogshit like shirts and fake
Pokemon cards. Is he selling fake
Pokemon cards as me? No, there's no
there's no way that I don't buy. That'd
be
diabolical. Here's his Tik Tok shop and
then Oh my god. And the name is just
Moist Critical
Showcase. And it's just, oh my god, he's
a fucking scalper,
too. That's
unbelievable.
That's
preposterous. Am I understanding this
correctly? Like these these 37 products
listed here are his products he is
selling.
So, he's also selling the fit beast grip
strength trainer
kit and some well, a Japanese anime
action figure doll. Is that how the Tik
Tok tick tock shop
works? It's that or stuff he's paid to
promote. So, some shit like from
Alibaba. Oh, can you do that? Like paid
shop promotionals like that? May that'
make a little more sense for like the
fit beast pro grip strength trainer
jerkoff extraordinaire turbo arcade
edition or whatever. That would check
out a little
more. Hold on. I I've got to go down
that Tik Tok. You know, I actually bet
on either Tik Tok or Instagram. I bet
he's had companies reach out to him to
do sponsored posts and I bet he has
taken those as me. Hold on. I want to
confirm a suspicion cuz those kind of
companies reach out all the fucking time
and they're just like these fraudulent
businesses. I bet he has taken some
under those accounts if I had to if I
had to spitball. Let me see. So far, no.