I'm not exactly a huge fan of the recent
Jurassic World movies. That's not a
surprise for anyone to hear. I've talked
about it before. But I am happy to
report that with the new Jurassic World
movie, Rebirth, the tradition has been
kept alive of me falling asleep during
these films. I dozed off for a handful
of minutes during their third rodeo
trying to gather some blood from a dino.
It was the uh the final one they were
getting the blood of. So, let's just get
into it. I think it's stinky. I I just I
think there's so little to like about
the movie. The question on everyone's
mind though, is it worse than Dominion?
No, it is a little better than Dominion.
Is that a compliment? Not exactly.
Again, this is like saying poop is
better than shit. It's It is better than
Dominion. So, if that's all you want,
then maybe you'll be pleased with the
film in that respect. I don't know.
Basically, the movie is two films. You
have a really very predictable plot of
these mercenaries are contacted by big
corpo to go on this mission to dangerous
dino island that's prohibited for
travel. Human beings aren't allowed to
set foot there. It's too dangerous. They
need to go there to gather blood from
three really big dinosaurs because they
have big hearts and gathering blood from
them can lead to a big cure to
cardiovascular diseases and stuff like
that. Very simple. So you get a rag tag
team of mercenaries together. They're
wise kraken and they're badass and going
to a dinosaur island to shoot syringes
and dinosaurs and that's that. That's
fine. I that doesn't bother me at all.
But what does bother me is that the
other half of this film is you follow a
family who takes a vacation to Dinosaur
Island basically. And that becomes the
focal point of the film. That family,
this boring family is what you follow
start to finish. And it's not like you
even get like character arcs like with
this family dynamic. You get actually
nothing. You don't get morsels of
anything. You get like actually
that's the whole that's all you get with
this film. So the family, they were
going on a little adventure on their
boat through dinosaur territory for some
reason. I don't know why. Naturally,
they ran into a dinosaur and they're
shocked by it and then got rescued by
this mercenary team. So, now they're
field tripping with them to the dinosaur
island and now they're all trying to
survive there. It sucks. Let's get into
spoilers. I I really want to talk about
it in depth. Uh so, here's your spoiler
warning. Spoiler warning.
All right, now it's over. Let's start
with my biggest problem here, which is
how uninteresting it is watching this
family just go through the jungle and do
nothing like and lightly jog away from
dinosaurs sometimes.
Like the the characters there aren't
even interesting. They're just so flat.
The closest thing you have to a
character that develops is the
daughter's boyfriend is a huge
douchebag. They establish that early on.
like he's really lazy. He's like, "Oh,
Pops, I'm I'm tired. Can you just handle
the wheel?" He's like, "But I've been up
like all night. You know, I really would
like you to kind of take the the helm
for a minute while I go to sleep." No,
you got it. You got it. You got it,
right? You fucking got it. Let me go
touch on those nipples or something.
Yeah, I'm real I'm real weird and I'm
douchy. Ah. And that's that's that
character. That's all he is. And the dad
doesn't respect him. Doesn't understand
what his daughter sees in him. Then they
end up on Dino Island and he does like
one thing where he like puts himself in
danger to try and save the daughter and
then goes right back to just being a
douchebag and the dad's like, "I respect
you for what you did." And he's like,
"I'm going to go take a piss." And then
the nothing even happens like with that
character. He just stays a douchebag the
whole time. And none of the family is
ever in any actual danger. Like it feels
like they're playing with god mode on.
Like they have cheats enabled. They are
never actually in danger. And every
fucking scene where they try and like
set up tension with dinosaurs is so
lackluster. It's such a wet fart of
tension because it always is just
they're like scrambling slowly to get
away from a dinosaur and the dinosaur
inexplicably like starts entering 0.5
speed. So it's like kind of moving like
this and then it'll like chomp at them a
little bit and always miss quite a like
by quite a bit. Like it's not even
really trying. And it just doesn't
compute. It's so silly because it
doesn't build tension when you know
these characters aren't actually in
danger cuz these dinosaurs are fucking
lobotomized. And they're not even
dinosaurs. They're basically just like
these weird amalgamations of like
dinosaur DNA and like mumbo jumbo
mythical beasts. So, you have like these
pseudo dinosaurs that are like the
threats and they're just terrible at
eating people. Like they're actually
awful at hunting. It's a miracle that
they're even surviving on their own on
this island cuz they can't even hunt
like a child that doesn't even know that
the dinosaur is there. It's stupid, man.
Like, it's not tense. The dinosaur
designs, I think, are cool. Like, if I
was to give a compliment to the movie, I
actually think they crushed the dinosaur
designs. Like they have this xenomorph
dinosaur, which I think is a big
improvement over the Joker Rex from the
previous film. If anyone remembers that,
the director came out and said that this
new dinosaur is a lot like the Joker. It
just wants to watch the world burn.
Cringe as fuck ever. In here, they have
a xenomorph dinosaur. And I fuck you
not, he himself, like the the man behind
the dinosaur came forward and even said
it's inspired by xenomorphs. And it's a
cool design, but it's also like the
world's most inefficient dinosaur ever.
It can't move at a top speed faster than
your geriatric grandfather. And it also
is just really bad at like catching
things or doing things. Like it's
honestly just kind of sad. Like when
like it doesn't show up until like the
last 10 minutes, so it doesn't have a
whole lot to do in the first place. But
when it's there, I just kind of felt bad
for it. Yeah, I really did cuz it it
can't do shit anything at all. I
don't know how it hasn't starved. Maybe
there's some kind of modification in its
DNA where it photosynthesizes sunbeams
or some bullshit because it is not a good
hunter. It is terrible. It is terrible.
Even though the design is like actually
really cool, like it does look like a
scary dinosaur design. It's not even a
dinosaur. Like I said, it's more like a
fucking mutant creature thing. But even
though it's very cool, it's not
intimidating, if that makes sense. Like
they make the dinosaur kind of a joke.
So, there's supposed to be a hero
sacrifice at the end where Scarlett
Johansson's best friend, one of the
other mercenaries, the only other
mercenary that gets even the the
slightest semblance of fleshing out or
anything about the character
established. He is about to sacrifice
himself to save the family cuz they
notice that this dinosaur really likes
light. He is drawn to light like moths
to a flame. So, he lights a flare and
starts running in the opposite direction
to lure the dinosaur away from everyone
else who's getting on a boat. Dinosaur
obviously follows him. Dinosaur is
basically moving through molasses
because it is abominably slow. And he is
now cornered. He is trapped. There is
nowhere for him to go. He is face tof
face with this monster, this killing
machine. And you expect that he dies
there. The dinosaur leaves. You don't
see him have an on-screen death or
anything. The dinosaur leaves and starts
going towards the boat again very, very,
very, very, very slowly. So, it's not
actually a threat or anything. And then
they're just, you know, all really sad
because they think they just so they
think he just gave his life for theirs.
But then he shoots a flare and it turns
out all he did was just kind of swim
away a little bit. Not even that far. He
just swam away. So the fucking dinosaur
couldn't even kill one guy who had no
weapons, completely defenseless, had
fully accepted his fate of death,
nowhere to go. Still couldn't even kill
that guy. Like it's not like he put up a
fight or anything. He didn't just start,
you know, throwing up some hands up here
and fucking boxing with him and scared
him or anything. He is completely
unharmed, unscathed. It just gently swam
away a little bit. So then they pick him
up and he's totally fine. And then it's,
you know, happily ever after. The
dinosaur is fucking worthless. That
thing is pathetic. Overall, it is just
so boring following this family for the
vast majority of this film. Like they
they don't even like grow as a family or
anything. They just like sleepwalk their
way through the island and end up on the
boat with the mercenaries and the day is
saved. And let's talk about the
mercenaries because I think that had
potential to be cool, but it's not. So
like Scarlett Johansson, she was on
autopilot in this film. There is not
even a modum of effort that comes across
on screen and I can't blame her. She's
working with like the weakest script
ever. I understand why she wouldn't try
very hard here, but my god, it is it is
lazy and lackluster, but she's supposed
to be like this crackshot. Like she is
the one that the corpo suit approaches
to like hire for this job and then she
assembles the team and she's the leader
of the team. And immediately when it's
her turn to get this DNA from the
dinosaurs, they're going after the the
water one first. And it's like this
giant water monster that very
conveniently shows itself like above the
water for a long period of time and then
it like splashes some water at her and
then she immediately misfires because
water got splashed. So she immediately
misfires and the dart is way off course.
So now they have to resort to a backup
dart, which they do have some spares.
But it it off rip her very first
demonstration of like how elite she is,
she fucking flops. She immediately fails
in what is kind of like a trivial
situation. Like you would expect a
dinosaur to be splashing water like a
giant dinosaur. Like that's something
she should have expected, but she
fucking freaks out and like shoots it.
And then it falls into what I just
mentioned with the family thing where
like she's like a bigger wave comes
after it does like a you know the fucking
back flip or whatever and then it knocks
her off balance. So she's hanging off
the boat and the dinosaur is like
trying to chomp at her and missing
somehow and then she like regains her
footing and then shoots it because
luckily the dinosaur for some reason has
just stayed above the water this entire
time instead of diving down like it has
many times in the past. And then after
she gets the blood, then it dives down
and the, you know, all's really good.
Nothing but sunshine from there. Very
beautiful timing. Honestly, it's like
the dinosaur just wanted its blood taken
and is hoping to get the results. Oh
man. And without even talking about the
mercenary and family plotline, which
again feels like two very conflicting
movies that they just really terribly
slam together. Like even outside of
that, what they set up here sucks. Like
the very start of this movie I thought
was embarrassing. like laughable. So,
this island was once a laboratory where
they were, you know, crossbreeding
dinosaurs to try and make designer
dinosaurs to entertain guests because
people were getting bored of the same
tired old dinosaurs. So, they were
theory crafting and using some wacky
science to basically make Fortnite skin
dinosaurs, making all kinds of zany
creatures. And then unfortunately, one
of the scientists was eating a snack, a
candy bar, and the candy bar wrapper
fell to the floor without him noticing.
And as he was going through the safety
protocol and going into one of the
facilities with the xenomorph dinosaur,
the candy wrapper got sucked up into the
door and blew it up. So, the candy
wrapper gets sucked into this door,
which prevents it from closing, which
then triggers the entire security system
to reboot, which for some reason
triggers the entire security system to
just unleash all of the things in
containment and then everyone dies and
now this island is infested with all
these mutant dinosaurs. What the fuck
kind of system is that? Who designed
that system where like a door having a
problem ends up releasing every security
parameter all at once? What? Like my
god, that laboratory deserve to go up in
flames. If it wasn't a candy rapper that
did them in, they probably would have
left the fucking gas stove on and caused
a fucking explosion or something. It's
crazy. How is that the plot to how these
dinosaurs took over this island? That is
mind-bogglingly bad. I really didn't
like pretty much anything about this
movie. I'm sorry to say I I haven't seen
too much of the response to this film
from others. I don't know if I'm on like
big hot take mode with this, but I
thought it sucked. I I thought there was
maybe like a couple of decent scenes
where like the dinosaurs like were
somewhat intimidating. It was mainly
when the dinosaurs were interacting with
each other as opposed to the humans
because once the humans were there, it
just felt like you were on like a
fucking Universal theme park ride or
something. Like there just I don't know.
I I didn't I didn't like it. It it also
felt like no one was even trying. The
mercenaries, they're supposed to be like
these really tight-knit friends and they
establish like oh we're really close. So
like Scarlett Johansson's character
Zora, she's the leader and she's like
talking to the others and they're like
real good pals. two of them die in like
their first encounter with that water
dinosaur and she doesn't give a fuck
She couldn't care less. She's just like,
"All right, so the they're gone. Let's
move on. Who cares what? Big whoop. You
want to fight about it?" Meanwhile, the
other mercenary who's like kind of
another main character, he's like, "Wow,
these were my friends and now they're
gone." And like he at least somewhat
gets emotional. Scarlett Johansson, it's
like she didn't even know him. They were
complete strangers. It was like a
mosquito got killed or something. That's
how little she gave a fuck It's just It
really feels like this movie had no
reason to even get made other than they
knew Jurassic World slapped on anything
would make money. So, they just shipped
out the easiest to produce by the
numbers boring uninspired dinosaur movie
you could possibly envision. It also
borrows blatantly from some good
Jurassic Park moments and does them
worse in this movie. Like there are some
recognizable scenes you will see that
they emulate here to a much worse
degree. There's just really nothing in
this movie I thought that it did a great
job with, especially when you compare it
to like good Jurassic Park, which I
guess maybe is just not fair to do
anymore with the state of how this
franchise is, but I just can't help but
to. And like even in the confines of
this own movie on its own two legs, it
doesn't even follow through with some of
the shit it itself seems to have wanted
to get to. Like I already mentioned the
boyfriend. The boyfriend is a character
like they kind of just forgot about
towards the end cuz they were building
up like he's trying to earn the father's
respect. By the end, all they did is
have him talk less so you as the viewer
stop getting as annoyed with him. Like
that was their that was the character
arc. He learned to shut the fuck up.
Like they set this up as like, "Oh,
okay. this character is going to evolve
into maybe more of like a hero character
who cares about this family a lot and
the dad's going to respect him by the
end. But then you get to the end of the
movie, that doesn't happen. All that
happens is the boyfriend, he he forgets
words and the dad forgets he's there.
The end of how that story element plays
out. Like it doesn't go anywhere. Like I
guess it's kind of implied the dad
respects him a little more because the
boyfriend survived and did try and help
the daughter and the the family. The
point is the movie doesn't even really
follow through on a lot of these
characters and their development or or
anything in general. Like I just don't
like the movie. I'll stop yapping about
it. I I I didn't come in here with high
expectations, but somehow I found myself
even more uninterested than I expected
to be and even less satisfied with the
two hours I spent there than I expected
I would be. And that's really about it.