I bear a slight resemblance to Kiana
Reeves, but as far as I know, I have no
relation to that man, but I do like him
and I appreciate his work, especially in
regards to the John Wick franchise. I
think most of you know I'm a big fan of
those movies. I think they're great
action films, but I have my concerns
with the series with how popular it's
gotten. They seem to be biting off a
lot, and I don't know if they can chew
it all and still fucking out anything of
high quality. I've been a little worried
with how much they're trying to do with
the universe that the quality of it is
going to diminish further and further
until it becomes kind of a joke of a
series and a shell of what it once was.
We haven't reached that point yet, but
it's just a little little fear in the
back of my noodle that I wanted to
express and I've talked about it on
stream multiple times. That being said,
a new John Wick movie has come out,
Ballerina, and this one doesn't star
Kiana Reeves. instead. Anna de Armis is
the lead and she does a great job. I
think the movie is good. However, I also
think it's the weakest in the movies
franchise so far and it's not because of
Kiana Reeves absence because he is here
in a smaller role, but he does pop up in
the film a bit. There's some decisions
made with the the story and a couple of
other things that just really don't work
super well and fall very flat. Luckily,
the action is not one of them. The
action, I think, is still extraordinary
in this movie. This is your spoiler
warning, by the way. I'm going to be
getting into spoilers. I'm going deep
into the the peanut butter and the jelly
here. So, spoilers will be talked about.
But anyway, this movie follows Eve,
whose father has been killed, and now
she's out for revenge on the people that
have done it, which leads her to being
trained by the Ruskar Roma, and she
becomes an absolute killing machine. She
doesn't become the Baba Yaga even though
there is a scene with a little subtle
wink mentioning the Baba Yaga in the
very beginning but she doesn't get like
you know nighted by Kiana Reeves here is
Baba Yaga 2 the sequel or anything but
she becomes an absolute fucking force
all on this path for vengeance and this
of course treats the audience to
extraordinary action sequences that the
franchise has become known for and this
movie does not shy away from it and it
doesn't peter out and do it poorly or
anything. I actually think some of the
scenes in here are among some of the
best in the John Wick movies. They get
very creative, specifically with
grenades. John Wick films always have
like a really creative thing that they
like showcase for quite a while and in
this movie it's grenades for the most
part. So Eve uses grenades a lot and she
uses them in more ways than just like
pulling the pin and you know saying frag
out like it's Call of Duty. She uses it
almost like hand-tohand combat. So like
in one of them, it's a scene in the
trailer, she like is beating a guy up,
taking his fucking lunch money, and then
stuffs a grenade in his mouth, and then
slams a door on him, a big metal door,
and it blows up and then leads to it's
basically like Rainbow Six Siege, making
a making a path to the next site, just
blowing him to pieces as she like throws
the door on him. It was great. She also
does like a fucking Wingchune karate
maneuver on another guy where she takes
a strap of grenade that finishes with
her taking a strap of grenades wrapping
around the guy's neck and then she dives
over a table which flips it up and then
he blows up and just gets instaged like
Team Fortress 2. Body parts flying
everywhere. The most unrealistic way of
handling that one guy. He had the worst
day you could possibly ever have. She
was already beating his ass like a drum.
And then she finishes it with this
crescendo of explosions from this
grenade belt on this one guy. Just a he
was just a normal guy. I wouldn't be
surprised if that was his first day on
the job and he was just doing this
because he got fired from his position
as a mailman and needed the money to
provide for his family and then just got
tasked with this and game ended in the
most brutal way. And like I said, it is
very unrealistic cuz she is basically on
top of those grenades as well. The only
thing separating the two of them is like
a very flimsy shitty balsa wood table.
And even that's not really separating
them because he's like on top of it,
basically on top of her. So she would
have also been blown to smithetheriness.
But you have to suspend disbelief in
films like this. And it's just it was so
entertaining the way they used grenades.
Not only that, flamethrowers were a
really big part of this as well,
especially towards the end. Well, really
only at the end where there's like a
flamethrower battle between her and a
mini boss. It was so fucking cool. But I
do have a nitpick about the action. And
this is something I've consistently
criticized for a lot of other films as
well. when it's in its flow state and
it's doing some really cool fucking it
always commits the sin of having someone
with like a gun, usually like a fucking
submachine gun, running up into melee
range just to get like fucking karate
chopped or and like overpowered. That
happens a lot in this movie. So like
she's beating up a bunch of dudes and
then there's like more dudes coming in
that are like running at her with their
guns out like this into melee range like
they were trying to fuck like stab
her with the barrel. like they weren't
bayonets yet they were getting like
right up in there instead of just
shooting her from across the room. And
it's obvious why it's so that way she
has a way of being able to beat them
because you're not winning that fight if
the guys with the guns are just on the
other side of the room shooting at you
while you're handtohand CQC on other
dudes. Like you're just your goose is
cooked. But I can't help but just notice
that and mention it because it does
happen a lot. It does kind of jump the
shark with that at the end of the film.
But it's not the biggest deal in the
world because it's still so entertaining
that you're not going to care that much.
It's very flashy and it's very cool. I
think they did a great job with the
action. Now, let's get to some things
that I don't like. The story sounds very
simple on the surface, right? And it's
because it is. And it eventually leads
to her fighting like an entire town,
like a giant cult. But instead of
keeping it simple, they
introduce
a whole side plot about her sister. It's
introduced in the very beginning, like
hinted at that she had a sister. The
sister's no longer here. And then in the
middle of the movie, she is trying to
get information about this cult so she
can track him down and kill them. That's
when she meets Norman Reedus as well as
his daughter, and they are trying to
leave this cult, but they're being
hunted. And now she gets roped into it,
and she basically has to babysit that
kid. a task she immediately fails when
she is thwarted, put into a checkmate on
the board by a mysterious woman named
Lena, who had been following that guy
and her daughter and now Eve kind of
just got wrapped up in the middle of it.
She gets knocked out by Lena and then
Lena just leaves. That's another thing
is in this film a lot of times they
could have just killed the person there
in order to put the kibos on it right
away so there would never be a problem.
And it's a decision they make like 10
times out of 10 except for the plot
convenience of when they don't. So there
is like the big plot armor moments
there. Not a huge complaint though. I
don't care that much. It's kind of to be
expected. But Lena towards the end of
the film we learn is actually Eve's
sister. And the the way that they get
this across I think was fucking
embarrassing. I think it was actually
horrible. They capture Eve at the town.
She's talking to the main bad guy, the
main villain, the leader of the cult.
and she mentions that he killed her
father and tried to take her and then he
connects the dots in his head and he
leaves and then he tells Lena who's kind
of like his, you know, second in
command. He says, "Turns out she's not
working for the guy we were looking
for." Turns out that's your
sister. How about that shit huh? He
just drops that on her
lap. Why? Because then what happens is
Lena's like, "My sister?" And then she
saves her sister and then the two
briefly team up and then immediately
Lena gets killed by the bad guy. He's
like just kill them both. So she dies in
front of Eve. So nothing even came from
the whole sister plot after she dies
with a bunch of grenades blowing her to
pieces. There's a lot of fucking
grenades in this movie. So after the
grenades claim her soul, she is not even
referenced again for the rest of the
movie. not even mention, not even a
fleeting thought about that whole sister
plot. So, what the fuck was the point?
Also, why did the bad guy even bother
telling Lena that that was his sister
and that that was her sister in there?
It makes no sense. Like, there'd be no
reason to do that. He would have to
recognize like this is going to create a
problem because we're about to kill her
in there. Why would he even tell Lena
that? He didn't need to. She didn't even
really ask. He went out of his way to
just be like, "Get a load of this. You
won't believe what I just learned." And
then again, it ultimately goes nowhere
because she dies immediately after and
is never once brought up again. So that
whole thing with the sister is useless.
It's completely useless. It's just I I
didn't understand what the point even
was. Which also then brings me to the
Kiana Reeves cameo. He cameos in the
very beginning of the film and it's
something that makes a lot of sense in
the continuity of the movies. If you've
watched the John Wick movies, you will
recognize that scene, but this time from
a different perspective. And it makes
sense. It checks out. But what doesn't
check out is that at the end of the
film, Ruskar Roma, the director,
actually six the Baba Yaga on
Eve. How does that make sense? So, he
ends up going there and basically, you
know, just beating Eve and then he
eventually just permits her to like
finish her job. He's like, "Okay, you
know, you can finish the job. I'm gonna
get a gun, but you finish the job. So,
she does. And he kind of like helps her.
He starts killing people, too, for some
reason. He just starts murdering people
and then he leaves. But it doesn't make
any sense why he's there. I cannot
figure out how this could possibly fit
into the established John Wick timeline.
It just it doesn't work. This is
supposed to be, I think, after three,
right? How in the fucking would he be here?
like why would he be here? It just it
doesn't it doesn't work like that. It
seems like it's truly just for the fan
service of it because it's John Wick. I
mean it's it's a it's a John Wick movie.
Everyone wants to see some more Kiana
Reeves. So they give the fans what they
want by bringing him in even though it
doesn't make a whole lot of sense for
this film in particular. Like it is
still cool and he's still great here.
But I just have to wonder how do you
explain that like going forward with the
John Wick movies, his presence in this
one. Another thing is they establish
that this cult has no rules. They're not
like the rest of us civilized
assassins. Yet they show this cult
abiding by the rules of the Continental
when it came with to that guy and the
girl that he had escaped with his
daughter. Even though that was like the
most important mission that this cult
had had up until that point, they just
abided by the Continental's rules of not
doing anything about it and they just
hung out in their room and they just
waited in the lobby until Eve shows up.
And then the second Eve goes to that
room, they're like, "Okay, you know,
let's go kill that guy and let's go take
the take his daughter back. Let's take
her back to the
cult." Why? Why wouldn't they have done
that earlier? Like, you've already said
they don't have rules. They don't play
by the rules. They're loose cannons. So
why the fuck are they playing by the
rules until randomly they decide no
we'll stop playing by the rules? Like
there was nothing that Eve did that
would necessarily open the door for them
to do that and they still get punished
for disobeying the rules by the
Continental. Just seemed very convenient
that they decide right then and there to
do that as opposed to the numerous other
opportunities they had to do that
throughout, you know, however long
they'd been there. It's just a lot of
what happens in this movie that I don't
think works is all narrative by having
the story be kind of sloppy with some
things that you're like, "Oh, what the
fuck was the point of that?" It kind of
takes away from a decent bit, especially
when it comes to the main villain. I
thought the main villain sucked. I I
really did not think he was that great
cuz he's not good at anything he does.
You never see him actually succeed at a
single fucking thing. In the very
beginning of the film when he's trying
to get Eve back and trying to kill Eve's
father, he doesn't succeed there except
by sheer dumb luck and the father bleeds
out, but Eve still gets away. So, that's
a mission failure. It was a mission
failure on everything for this guy
throughout the whole film. The only time
he had something work was when he did
get uh Norman Reed's daughter back, but
that was also just complete luck, too,
that Eve showed up. Otherwise, they
would have still been in that stalemate,
I guess. And then at the end, all he
does is rely on the director to send
Baba Yaga to try and kill Eve for him
because he and his group are incapable
of doing so. So then he's cowering in
fear and then eventually decides to try
and run away, which also doesn't succeed
for him. So he's just not like a good
villain. He's just kind of lame. And
anytime he's talking to the other
characters, they don't even respect him.
like he doesn't even intimidate anyone.
I don't know. It's just there were
things about this that I just think kind
of fell flat and they're all around like
the story of it and the writing around
that. But I do think Anna de Armas did a
good job as Eve. It was of course still
cool to see Kiana Reeves back in the
saddle. Even though it doesn't make a
whole lot of sense in the context of the
film, like the story, it's still cool.
The action was great. I still really
enjoyed it. But I do think it is one of
the weaker movies of the John Wick
franchise. But I definitely think it is
still worth seeing. It was still good.
That's about it. See you.