Good morning, butterflies. I hope you've
put on your favorite smile, ready to
grab the day, put it in a headlock, and
ask it who its father is. I've recently
found something to smile about, too.
Thanks for asking. A passion that was
once lost, but I have now found.
30-year-old man still has fun the
oldfashioned way. I've talked about this
a little bit, but I'm going so hog wild
on it, I can't help but yap about it one
more time. Also, I'm going to talk about
a couple other things like editing, that
kind of thing, which has apparently
become a bit of a big topic after
yesterday's upload. But let's start with
that first part. Passion. I am a man
with so much love to give. The cup runth
over on my capacity for for love that it
start it like loops back around to being
neutral. It's it's that it's that
powerful. And my first love was gaming.
Gaming. An integral part of my life. In
fact, the first time I ever saw a man's
pubis on a woman was in the game
Backyard Wrestling for the Xbox. They
had like a little section for videos
they filmed while partying at backyard
wrestling events. And a woman was
drinking like a Bud Light and then like
moved her bikini down a little bit and
you could see like the beginnings of
Aman's pubis. And my mind was blown.
Where would I be without gaming? Who
knows? Shooting up heroin somewhere
behind a Walmart next to the dumpster
most likely would be my guess. Gaming
has always been a core part of my soul.
Like my whole internet presence stemmed
from gaming, Gears of War, and it's
always been like the breadandbut content
of my channel. But as I've gotten older,
morphing more and more into just some
geyser, I haven't been playing as many
games. Like, yeah, of course, I still
stream every new game that comes out,
like every big AAA title, but I haven't
grinded games like I used to for Rainbow
Six Siege or Apex Legends. I haven't
played all of the wacky games that come
out like, you know, that no one's ever
heard of like I used to with all these
obscure titles and fucking really
off-the-wall concepts. I I've kind of
stopped doing that. And about two weeks
ago, it really started to dawn on me how
much I missed it. So, I started a whole
channel just for it. And I think there's
been a big misconception with this
channel, the Moist Critical Gaming One.
People just assumed it would be all
edited stream VODs of games that I
played on stream, but that's not the
case. What I actually want the channel
to be is a combination of, of course,
that because I do still game on stream
more so now than ever. But the big thing
is I've gone back to my roots, the old
gameplay and commentary days where I
would just play games off stream, record
it and post it cuz I wanted to play
those games. So I've started doing that
again, too. And it has been such a
breath of fresh air. So, like on that
channel right now, I have a Titanfall 2
video, Fly Knight, Battlefield Bad
Company 2, Max Pain 1, all these games
that I wanted to just play on my own and
I recorded it to post on that channel
and it has been a joy. I feel like what
must have happened without me even
noticing is as I was like a daily
streamer for a while, which I do still
stream almost every day, even though I'm
I consider myself more of a part-time
streamer now. But as I was like grinding
streaming for a while, gaming kind of
just became like a chore, like something
I felt I was expected to do as opposed
to something I wanted to do. So, it lost
that spark for me. But setting the clock
back, going back to the past to play the
shitty games that suck ass, it gets me
excited again to game, not only off
stream, but even on stream. I know this
all sounds like a tall glass of who
gives a fuck but I don't know, it feels
like as you get older, some things that
you used to love start to lose that
charm. And that's a shitty feeling. And
it happened again without me even really
noticing or even really giving a thought
to it. And it wasn't until I like sat
down and started paying attention to it
that I realized how far away I drifted
from like the old DNA of something that
I used to love. And it's just been nice
to find it again. Like I said, it makes
the streams more fun, too. Like I
started streaming Indigo Prophecy last
night. David Cage Super Stinker Classic.
one of the most entertainingly bad games
that was infamous back in the day. And
now I'm playing through that and I've
never finished that game, I don't think.
Which is another thing. Even though I
would be playing games over the last
five or so years, most of the time I
wouldn't even finish them. Like I became
notorious for not like starting Yakuza
games and not finishing them like a real
fucking goofball. I don't like that.
It's embarrassing. So, another thing
I've been doing is any game that I have
started, I am finishing. Like, no if
ends or buts about it. And that does
include Death Stranding 2, which drops
in two days, and I'm not looking forward
to it. A lot of Cojima fans just hit
their keyboards real hard to say some
mean stuff about my lack of pallet, but
I hate the gameplay loop of Death
Stranding. I think it is the most
mind-numbingly boring, tedious for the
sake of tedium shit. I love the universe
of Death Stranding. I love the writing.
I love the characters. I love everything
else about that game except for the core
gameplay loop of being delivering
packages while stumbling and pissing
your pants. I hate that. I like the
gunplay of it, too. I also like some of
the gameplay ideas of it. But since the
core loop seems to be again that same
shit from the first one of just fucking
stumbling over pebbles while delivering
heavy loads of packages, I am not
excited. But I'm going to I'm going to
eat my vegetables and I will finish that
game too. God damn it.
Anyway, I got off on a tangent there.
But yeah, I found the passion again for
gaming. That's the point of that. Next
thing is editing. Last night, I posted a
Silent Hill 2006 review as part of this
big undertaking I'm doing that'll
probably take like three or four years
to finish, where I'm watching every
single video game adaptation ever made,
movies. that is every video game movie
ever made. I started with Silent Hill
2006 and posted that review last night
to kick off that series. And a lot of
people with astute peepers may have
noticed there was more editing than
usual in that video. A lot of editing.
In fact, it wasn't edited by me. It was
edited by Chase. I've talked about this
before, but I edit like 98% of my
videos. Pretty much everything that's
not IRL or a big project is edited by me
in Sony Vegas, the goat of editing
software. I use two things to edit, the
cutting tool and the moving mouse tool
to push them together, which isn't a
tool. I just move it with my mouse. So,
I use one tool for editing, and it's
just cutting. So, that's the vast
majority of my content. But the ones
that are IRL or bigger projects I give
to Aaron, Chase or Edgar. And Chase
edited that one. And I told him to just
go hog wild with it. I told him to go
absolutely ballistic with editing
because I wanted it to be very over the
top, very fun, very silly. And I think
he absolutely crushed it in that
department. And a lot of people were
taken by surprise the big time jump
scare of seeing like zany edits in in a
video I've posted, which by the way,
this isn't the first time either. I've
posted plenty of videos here that do
have quite a bit of editing. Now, this
probably has the most, though, for sure.
Now, if it's not your cup of tea, it's
not your cup of tea. There's no problem
with that whatsoever. There's going to
be different tastes. I hate cherries.
Other people love cherries, and there's
nothing wrong with that at all. I think
that is totally fine, and it is very
different. So, I have no doubt that
there's a lot of people that probably
don't like that style all that much. And
a lot of people had this idea that this
was going to be every video going
forward, this kind of editing style,
which blows my mind because I don't know
how anyone gets that impression.
Throughout the entire fucking 19 years
or whatever that I've been on YouTube,
this whole channel has been just a
smorggageborg of a variety of different
things. Like so many different things
that I don't know why anyone would think
that one thing would now be everything
going forward. like this one video is
now going to be everything going forward
in this style when that has never once
been the case for anything on this
channel ever. So, I don't know why that
became like a prevalent con concern from
a lot of people seeing the editing here
and thinking that now everything's going
to be edited. Holy shit it's ruined. I
don't get how that thought crossed so
many noodles. I've always dropped like
experimental shit on this channel all
the time. Like I don't know why this one
was such like a like a problem or or
something to be worried about. Like oh
no the inshitification has begun.
There's editing now. All because one
video had a lot of editing.
So here's me putting those fears to bed.
The content's not changing. Still going
to be me slapping the vast majority of
it together in Sony Vegas. an archaic
program only archaeologists fucking
remember. It's that's still going to be
almost all of it. Same way it always
has. But this series, I'm going to tell
you, I like it being very over the top.
I think it makes it very, very
different, and I want that for it. So,
maybe going forward there won't be as
many like quick edits. I don't know.
It's something that we'll tinker around
and tweak with because like I said, this
is going to be like three or four years
worth of watching video game
adaptations. There's like 150 of these
fucks out there and I'm doing all of
them. The ones from the '9s, the Uve
Bull dog shit ones.
U B. I don't know how many of you
remember this. He made like I think it
was like five awful awful video game
movies way back in the day. and he used
to challenge his harshest critics to
boxing matches like literally fight me
if you didn't like the movie. So like
we're I'm doing all of them. So it's
going to be a lot here to find
definitively the best video game
adaptation movie and it's fun and it
will be edited a lot but that doesn't
mean everything will be. So I just
wanted to talk about that briefly. Oh
and I guess I'll also mention this. In
the Silent Hill review, I kept calling
Shawn Bean's character Harry. And I
thought I had explained why I did that,
but I clearly didn't. It wasn't in the
review. In the movie, Shawn Bean's
character is not Harry. He's
Christopher. I called him Harry because
in the movie, he looks exactly like
Harry from the Silent Hill game that it
is adapting loosely. Christopher gets
absolutely nothing of value to do in
that movie. And I thought it was pretty
clear that that character was supposed
to be like a subtle nod to the audience
that it's, you know, modeled after
Harry. And since Christopher is kind of
useless, gets absolutely nothing of
value to do on screen. He just goes on
his own side quest and and leads to
nothing. I just stuck with calling him
Harry because at least people know Harry
from the Silent Hill game. Whereas
Christopher is very forgettable in this
movie. Though, this is kind of a spoiler
going ahead. In the second Silent Hill
film, Christopher does do more of what
Harry did in Silent Hill 3. So, like
it's pretty clear it's supposed to be
Harry. Like I at least I thought. And so
I just kept calling him Harry in that
review. But I probably should have just
called him by his actual character name
because it ended up being very confusing
for people that have actually seen the
movie. Anyway, that's enough yapping.
Just wanted to talk about these few
things. That's really about it. See you.