There's no shortage of YouTubers that
try and transition from making YouTube
videos into movies. A lot of channels
have tried to take that plunge before,
but almost every single time it crashes
and burns and is always just a fruitless
endeavor that is only good for pointing
and laughing and shooting spitballs. But
there is one channel that has done it
extraordinarily well. Rockaraka, Danny
and Michael Filippo. I I hope I didn't
butcher their last name. I'm never
entirely sure how to say their last
name. They made a horror movie called
Talk to Me, which I think is an absolute
slapper of a film. And now they've just
released their second horror film, their
second A24 horror flick, Bring Her Back,
which I actually think is even better
than Talk to Me. It's a very different
film. It doesn't try and do the same
things. It is still a horror film, but
it's more akin to something like
Hereditary. And I think a lot of people
are going to be making that comparison
with this film. And as all of you know,
Hereditary is like my favorite horror
movie. I think that is a masterpiece all
the way up until like the last 10
minutes where I think it kind of eats
some major ass. It just goes into like
really big horror cliches, which a lot
of people really don't like my take on.
They That's a bit of a spicy take for
me. But I just really don't like the
last 10 minutes. It falls into just like
a Blumbhouse schllock fest at the end.
Even though I like the reason it happens
and I also like the actual final like
last couple scenes, but where they just
go through like the haunted house of
like banging head on wall, naked dude
with winky out fucking wiener hanging.
Like I think that was a little lame, but
I still think Hereditary is one of the
best horror films in general. And
Bringing Her Back feels a lot like
Hereditary did where it's not trying to
like jump scare you and get you with
like a boo. You've been startled. Get
spooked, loser. It's going for like a
very slow, constant,
anxietybuilding, tension, like
unnerving, disturbing experience. It
does it, I think, really, really well.
It's a movie mainly focused on grief and
coping with the loss of a loved one. I I
think it's actually like a really
thoughtprovoking film, which I didn't
expect at all going into this. Talk to
Me I thought was a really good movie,
but it's pretty simple. They have a a
haunted hand basically that they can dap
up and take a addicting journey into the
spirit realm and get possessed for a
little while and then snap right back
into it until something goes ary. This
though was very very different and I
really appreciate that they didn't just
try and do the same thing again. You
know that was so good I'll just try it a
second time type deal. So to break it
down, Bring Her Back is about a brother
and sister who just lost their father in
a very traumatic way. The sister is
visually impaired. She can see shapes
and lights, but not much beyond that.
And they are now put in foster care of a
woman who had a daughter that she
recently lost. And she also has another
kid staying with her in the foster
program. And things are uh a little off
about this woman, Laura. She's really
sweet, like really nice, but in a way
that's off-putting. The acting in this
movie I actually thought was phenomenal.
So when you have a character like Laura
who's like really bubbly and like don't
you got a boo boo? Do you need me to
kiss it? Do you I'll do anything to make
anyone happy. Like it's supposed like
it's everything she's saying is really
nice and caring but you can tell there's
something very sinister about her and as
it continues to progress she's very
manipulative. So
Laura Hello Io. I know it was a good
movie wasn't it? you didn't get to see
it, but I'm sure you can feel my
excitement for the film. Point is, the
acting is great and it helps you get
invested in the characters like that.
That's what I'm getting at here. But I
want to get into it more like deeper
into the spaghetti and meatballs. So,
spoiler warning here. I've been really
enjoying doing these reviews while
talking about spoilers, just fucking
freeing the nipple and letting all the
thoughts out here. So, Laura, I think,
is a character. She's obviously the
villain, but it's a villain that you can
really kind of almost understand to a
certain degree. She's lost her daughter.
That is one of the worst things that can
happen to a parent. And she will do
anything for the chance to see her
daughter again. What parent wouldn't?
and she stumbled across these videotapes
that have some kind of satanic ritual
that can transfer the soul of like a
demon or a demon can transfer the soul
of a lost loved one into another body.
So, she's watching the tapes and
learning how the process goes, which is
why she has the other child there, Ali.
He's not part of the foster program, or
at least he's not supposed to be. and
she's putting the demon inside of his
body so that way he can take his take
her daughter's soul and put it inside
the body of the uh the sister her name
is Piper. It's a plotline that we've
seen explored before like I have seen
horror movies with a similar concept but
not executed this well because this film
does what those failed to do. It
actually makes you care a lot and has a
lot to say about grief in general. Plus,
it's shot really well. So, there's some
very creative scenes here and some
really good gore and grossness to it
that makes it just feel kind of like
like almost like squeamish at times,
especially with Olly. Like there's a
scene where Ollie is like biting on a
knife and his skin is tearing as the
brother Andy is watching, horrified,
wondering what the fuck is going on with
this kid. And it presents to you a good
mystery though. Though I think most
people from the title of the film and
immediately upon seeing these tapes will
connect the dots of what the mother
Laura is trying to do here. It doesn't
matter cuz that's not the actual like
big discovery of the mystery per se. I
think it's pretty obvious from the jump
once that's established which is early
on. It's a matter of how do we stop it?
She's really good at gaslighting,
manipulating Piper and Andy and putting
them against each other where she starts
to like frame Andy for like abusing her
and kind of separates the two of them so
it puts this barrier up so it makes it
hard for Andy who starts to get the
sense that something's wrong after
seeing everything Ollie's doing. Like it
is just done so well and it's not a film
that's like super slow with like glacial
pacing where it feels like nothing's
happening except for like trauma dumping
back and forth or anything. The film is
constantly moving and it's showing you
disturbing imagery and disturbing
scenes. Like I mentioned, Olly with the
knife or another scene where Oie is
getting like more and more swollen, like
he's starting to like fucking puff up
like he's about to explode like an Elden
Elden Ring enemy any moment now. And
then he gets like really hungry, just
gluttonous. So he starts like eating his
own flesh, like tearing it from the
bone. He starts like eating the wood
countertop. And I think it was pretty
great. There were a couple people in the
theater I heard audibly go like, "Oh,"
during a couple of those scenes. So,
it's definitely eliciting the response
the directors wanted here. I really
think another thing that helped them a
lot when it comes to those scenes is how
they're filmed. Like, it's just so
meticulous and it like they linger on
it, just letting it like marinate,
letting you stew on what you're seeing
and just how like gross and
uncomfortable it is. I I just really
think this movie is like a full-blown
banger. I was very impressed with this
movie. I also think there's a lot to
like chew on here. Not even making like
a joke calling back to like the
countertop scene. I mean, like there is
really like a lot in this that isn't
just spoonfed to you. Even though you
know Laura's intention, she's studied
these tapes and she is now trying to put
into practice this ritual of
transferring a soul into another body so
she can be reunited with her daughter
that was gone too soon from her. There
is a lot that happens that there's like
breadcrumbs that you can start to piece
together other things. For example, was
Andy being drugged by Laura? We see like
this creatine She pours it out towards
the end of the film when she's told or
when she finds out a social worker is
about to visit. And we have seen Andy
like passing out and like drooling all
over himself in his sleep and he's like
wetting the bed and stuff like that. And
you can write that off as like maybe
trauma from seeing his father pass away
in such a horrifying fashion. But then
when you see that quick lit literally
like 2 second like blurb of her pouring
out creatine when trying to clean up the
place for the social worker, you start
to ask why would she do that? Well,
maybe she drugged him. Like there's just
so much like that in this film. And it
doesn't follow the path that you think
it's going to follow. Like I just think
it's such a good movie. I I was very
impressed. I don't think it's perfect,
though. And here I want to get into my
biggest complaint. And unfortunately,
just like Hereditary, it's a bit of the
ending. At the end of the film, I do
find that it was a bit
underwhelming how after everything Laura
has done for this ritual, she eventually
just decides she can't go through with
it. Now, I think it's great that Piper
herself like fought back and was like
actively, you know, defying Laura and
trying to save herself, but ultimately
what happens is Laura just can't do it
cuz she's supposed to mimic the death of
how her daughter passed, which was
drowning. So, she is trying to drown
Piper and then after getting scratched,
she kind of just she just can't do it
anymore. It's too much for her after
she's already killed a bunch of people
and done unforgivable things. She now at
the very end backs out of it and then
Piper escapes and then the ritual is
kaput, the demon gets expelled, that
kind of thing. I still think it's a nice
conclusion. I think it's a great ending,
but I couldn't help but feel a little
underwhelmed to watch her just decide,
all right, we're we're pumping the
brakes. We're done. Like it makes sense.
The reason she did that makes total
sense because she she watched her
daughter drown and now she is actively
drowning this girl that reminds her of
her daughter. So it's a very hard thing
for her to do and you can see her
struggling with that as she's doing it.
But she's still like committed to doing
it and she has still done all this
planning for so long to do it. Killed so
many people for it and then at the very
end not going through with it. It just
feels like I don't know. I I would have
liked, you know, Piper to overcome this
this obstacle and defeat Laura or some
kind of like karmic justice for Laura,
which I thought they were kind of
building to when it came to what
happened with Andy. Uh, but I don't
know. I I just couldn't help but feel
like that wasn't amazing there, but
everything else around it was. So, it's
not like a massive complaint, and by no
means does it ruin the movie or even
take away from the film. It's just my
only like criticism of it. But yeah, I
think Bring Her Back is an absolute
mustwatch for horror fans. I would
comfortably put this up here with
something like a Hereditary. I I did
really like it a lot. I don't think it's
as good as Hereditary, but I think it's
definitely in a conversation with it, at
least for my personal, you know, horror
movie top films of the modern age. So,
yeah, that's really about it. So, yeah.