I watched The Last of Us season 2 finale
after stream tonight, which was pretty
late, so I didn't finish watching it
till like 3:00 a.m. And I said,
"Fiddlesticks, we need to catch some
Z's. I'll go ahead and do the review in
the morning." Couldn't sleep, so now
it's 5:00 a.m. And I said, "Well, might
as well do it now." It's never any fun
not being able to go to sleep, just like
it wasn't any fun watching Last of Us
season 2. Like most people, I liked the
first season. I thought they did a great
job. season two. I was skeptical on them
not recasting Ellie and keeping Bella
Ramsay as Ellie because it's supposed to
take place five years into the future,
but obviously Bella Ramsay in real life
was not going to age that much in, you
know, the two years it took between
seasons. So, in the show, Ellie still
looks exactly the same, but is supposed
to be five years older. Also, Ellie
still acts exactly the same. So, it
really conflicts with what the character
is supposed to be portrayed as here
because Ellie still looks and acts like
a 14-year-old from season 1, even though
she's supposed to be 19. So, this was a
big complaint I had that I already had
mentioned earlier with, you know, the
episode with Joel's death where Ellie
just doesn't feel like she's changed.
She still feels like that same kid from
season 1 who's just constantly joking
and extremely immature. And
unfortunately, that doesn't change
throughout season 2 at all. It still
feels really out of place. In the game,
Ellie has a lot more grit. Ellie is also
smart in the game. For some reason, they
made the decision for The Last of Us
season 2 to make Ellie dumb to the point
where she even says that she's stupid.
Why? That just kind of betrays the
character. Yeah, she's supposed to be
like reckless and everything, but that
doesn't mean that she's some like
labbotomite. That change just didn't
really make sense to me. Pretty much all
of the good traits of Ellie from the
game were given to Dena in the show.
Dena feels like the actual main
character of season 2, whereas Ellie
just feels like the quirky sidekick
constantly scrambling to make a quip.
Now, of course, I've seen a lot of
people saying that it's all Bella
Ramsay's acting's fault here for the
lackluster season, and I don't really
agree with that. Did Bella Ramsey knock
it out of the park? A fucking grand
slam, grand salami performance? No. But
I don't think this material would work
even if they did recast Ellie for
somebody else that could embody, you
know, the grits and the intimidation
that Ellie had in the game better. Like
I don't think it would change if the
material didn't because for some reason
Ellie is written to still be like this
kid that takes nothing seriously and all
the characters that interact with Ellie
in this world interact with her as kind
of a babysitter. Best example is Jesse
where Jesse comes and rescues her and
Dena, saves the day and then the rest of
that episode and now into this episode.
There's no like actual friendship
between them and in fact there really
hasn't been on screen at all for the
whole season. But it's so egregious here
in these last two episodes where like
they're not friendly whereas in the game
you get the feeling that they will do
anything for each other to, you know,
keep each other safe. In the show, Jesse
is literally like the babysitter here,
just having to sigh and put up with
Ellie's attitude and just being like
this constant brat. So, I don't even
think that's Bella Ramsay's fault. That
is the fault of the writing around this
character. They were totally off the
mark with what they tried to do here. It
was much, much worse than the video game
counterpart. And even if you haven't
played the game, I just think most
people will get the impression that
Ellie is like this really annoying
character. There just wasn't a single
moment in the season where you get the
sense that she is on this unstoppable
quest for revenge, an insatiable
appetite for vengeance, overcome with
the desire to kill the people that
killed Joel. It never feels that way
because it just never seems like she
cares that much. It feels more almost
like a slice of life sometimes as
opposed to like this dark descent into
revenge and the effects it has on
everyone around them. The character was
written to just be constantly joking,
which again, I don't understand why.
Because in the game, yeah, Ellie of
course is still kind of zany, but it's
every minute of every scene in season
two, like in between perilous, you know,
sequences, you know, where they're
trying to be quiet or like about to
fight some infected. In between that,
they are joking. In fact, sometimes in
the middle of it, like in the very
beginning of the season where they're
about to like kill uh one of a clicker
and they're doing like sign language
back and forth and she does like the
mimming that she's stabbing her neck and
like blood's pouring out like it's
always joking, which doesn't work for
how serious this is supposed to be. It
doesn't feel intense. It takes a lot of
that like onedge, you know, hold your
breath. are they going to make it out
alive, you know, anxiety out of it
because it's constantly broken up with
Ellie making a joke or something or it
just not being taken seriously for some
reason. And I think that's the biggest
detriment to the season that and a lot
of the changes they made just don't
work. I actually thought some of the
changes they made to the episode
surrounding Joel's death were positive.
As I mentioned, I think that entire
sequence with the Jackson fight was
great. I think that was a really good
idea. I won't just regurgitate my take
on that episode, but the point is I
think that was a good change and then
the majority of the changes they made
going forward were huge misses and big
question marks. I don't really get it.
Like the best example comes from the
finale, I think, where Ellie when
pursuing Abby, she washes up on the
shore and gets taken by the scars and
she's about to be gutted like a fish and
then she's not because it gets broken
up. The village is under attack. They
let her go and then she gets out of
there and then goes back to get Ellie.
That wasn't in the game and it added
nothing. It felt so out of the blue,
just completely
random. Why? Why? Why even have that
there? Doesn't really compute in my
noodle up here. Maybe it'll be something
they explore in season 3 perhaps, but as
of right now, that just felt entirely
out of left field and served no real
purpose. Unless what they tried to get
across to viewers is just how deep the
indoctrination goes with the cult
because it was a little kid who kind of,
you know, passed judgment saying that
she needs to be killed. The kid like
gave the sign to like, you know,
splitter open. So maybe that's what it
wanted to get across. But I don't think
you needed this whole sequence here that
leads to nothing. Like that was already
kind of established earlier in the
season anyway. But whatever. Point is,
there was a lot of changes here that I
don't think added anything. And in fact,
some of them I think just take away. But
I'm not speaking in absolutes. I'm not a
Sith. There are a couple changes I like.
As mentioned, the Jackson sequence. I
thought that was a great battle. And
still the best part of season 2, I would
say, was everything that happened at
Jackson with that huge fight with the
infected horde. But there's another
change that they introduced in the
finale that I thought was really smart.
It's while Ellie and Jesse take refuge
for a moment. Hold up. And Ellie grabs a
book. And that book is actually one
that's near and dear to my heart. It's
the monster at the end of this book, the
Sesame Street book.
Grover. That book is all about Grover
trying to stop you from getting to the
end of the book because of the monster
that lies at the very end. It's
horrifying. So, he's, you know,
frantically trying to get you to stop.
No, don't go to the end of the book. But
then when you get to the end of the
book, turns out the monster is Grover
the whole time. I actually think that's
at least the way I read it, I think that
is a very clever thing to slide in here,
knowing the game. Obviously, what it's
talking about is how on this path for
revenge, Ellie is the monster at the end
of the book and what she became. And I
think that works pretty well for the
game, not the show, because the show
Ellie is just not the same character
from the game. Not even close, really.
So, I don't think it hits as hard in the
show, but I think that it was a very
clever nod to the game counterpart. And
I just wanted to mention that cuz I
thought that was pretty cool. There was
also I also like what they did with
Isaac. I thought Isaac was pretty solid
for the brief glimpses you get of him in
this show. I actually thought Isaac was
very cool. So, there are a couple things
that I liked. But overall, I think
season 2 is just a miss. And the biggest
reason for that is because of how Ellie
was written here. They at no point have
Ellie even remotely come close to the
rage that's demonstrated in the
character in the game. And for the vast
majority of this season, Ellie's just
jubilant, full of joy, constantly happy
and joking. even when the situations
make no sense for that to be the emotion
that Ellie has in those moments. It it
doesn't work. It's just she never feels
angry or full of rage or anything like
that, like on a destructive war path. It
never comes across. And it doesn't help
that the character feels really
inconsistent. It felt like they were
afraid to commit to just the angry,
revenge obsessed Ellie from the game.
Like in this finale alone, there is a
scene that I'm pretty sure almost 100%
sure wasn't in the game. Granted, it's
been a while since I've played it where
Ellie and Jesse take cover inside a
garage cuz wolves were shooting at a
Scar who was running away from them.
They catch up. They then take it the
Scar's clothes off, drag him away
presumably to execute him. Ellie tries
to go save him and Jesse stops her and
she gets very upset about that because
she wanted to save him and
that really conflicts with the selfish
Ellie that they're trying to get across
and also the Ellie from the game who
absolutely would not care about that and
is just so consumed with revenge. She
wouldn't do that or get mad about not
being able to save this scar she didn't
know. And then two scenes later in this
finale, it's when Jesse and Ellie are
looking over the city. Ellie sees the
ferris wheel, connects the dots that
Aby's going to be at the aquarium under
the ferris wheel, and Jesse is trying to
convince her to save Tommy because they
hear the gunshots. Jesse reminds her
Tommy is fighting wolves. He's pinning
them down, but they called her back up.
Ellie then says then he'll pin down the
backup, and she ultimately chooses to go
after Abby and abandons Tommy and Jesse
for her quest for revenge. that happened
in the game and that was once again to
solidify just how consumed she was on
this quest for vengeance. But in the
show, it kind of flip-flops on Ellie.
Sometimes she wants to be like the good
guy helping everybody, even strangers
she doesn't know, being the savior over
there, and then two scenes later, nope,
she's going to be that ragefilled
revenge machine. Like, it just felt like
they couldn't really commit to that
Ellie from the game, and instead they
just had her be pretty inconsistent
across the whole season.
Also, when she's going through the
aquarium with the flashlight on, that
fucking was kind of painful. She is behind
enemy lines. She's already just gone
through that island sequence. Now, she's
in the aquarium, yet she still has her
flashlight fully blasting here, knowing
full well everyone there will just try
and kill her if they're alerted to her
presence. And yet, she's like basically
throwing up a flare to what where she is
at all times. She's basically got the
UAV out on herself by just having the
flashlight going. But luckily, of
course, they were in the back, so they
didn't see it. That was just a little
silly something I wanted to mention.
Another thing I want to mention though
is after Tommy and Jesse come and they
get Ellie and they go back to the safe
spot. There's a conversation that gets
had and I don't remember if it plays out
this way in the game, but in the show it
felt really bad. It's when Ellie asked,
you know, why'd you come back? Jesse
said, "Maybe Tommy forced me to." Ellie
said something to the effect of, "Is
that true?" And Jesse said, "Nope."
And then he says,"I just thought if I
was ever in trouble, you know, life on
the line, I knew I could count on you to
you light a fire, burn it all down, do
everything possible, move mountains,
basically to come save me." He basically
says that if he was in trouble, he knows
Ellie would do everything to save him.
And I just thought to myself, how
fucking stupid that sounds after what we
just watched where Ellie literally less
than 20 minutes ago just
openly forsakes Jesse and Tommy. Tommy
who is in immediate danger fighting
against wolves in like this huge
firefight. Ellie abandons both of them
in order to go find Abby. So, I don't
know why Jesse thinks that she would do
anything to save him because there's a
good chance if Ellie smelt a fart that
she believed would somehow lead her
closer to Abby, she would follow that
like a cartoon character smelling a nice
pie and forget all about Jesse entirely.
So, it just that line, that conversation
doesn't really hit when we've already
watched Ellie go completely against that
and abandon the people she cares about
for revenge, which I do think is much
more in line with the video game
character for what it's worth. But since
the show is very inconsistent about
being that angry, rage revenge focused
character that we know from the game, it
doesn't fit. Like it no longer works and
it feels very out of place. Anyway
though, I'll stop yapping about the
show. There were moments I thought were
pretty decent, but they were few and far
between. Unfortunately, I think it was a
huge step down. I also think the season
had some big pacing issues that I
haven't even begun to touch on it. It
really wasn't great. Oh, I did want to
mention though, I actually thought Abby
was pretty solid in the show. Like, I
don't have any major complaints there. I
And even though we didn't get to see a
lot of Abby, Aby's side of things
whenever it would pop up actually was
solid. Like, I don't know if that's
maybe just because everything on the
Ellie side was handled so poorly that
Aby's side, by contrast, looks a lot
better. I don't really know, but I I
really did think Abby was pretty solid
in the season. And I know season 3 is
obviously going to be focusing on Aby's
side entirely. So maybe that ends up
being a bit better than this season
because season two of Last of Us Show,
not amazing. That's really about it.
Tip.