Hate is a very strong word, but
unfortunately it's not strong enough to
encapsulate my feelings on health
insurance. I've yapped about it a lot.
People have talked about it a lot for a
long time. It is the most corrupt evil
industry in this country. You pay a
premium every month for years and years
with the sole purpose of having this
health insurance provider step in should
a crisis ever arise to help with the
financial burden of the expensive
medical procedures or treatment or
medicine, whatever it might be. However,
should a crisis ever arise, I promise
you, your health insurance provider is
going to be the first one dancing over
your corpse hitting a whipping
nigh nigh as you're going straight to
Valhalla because they have denied your
claims. It is the most unhinged business
model that is trying to capitalize off
your death and misery. You pay this
company to do one thing. And this
company's entire goal, its modus
operandi, it's chous operandi is to find
ways to wiggle out of doing the one
thing you pay it for. That I I just had
to spit. It makes me so sick. That is
the tug-of-war back and forth that you
sign up with with health insurance. And
that's normal here. You pay it for
something and its goal is to find ways
out of doing the coverage that you're
paying for. And right now, the reason
why I'm jabbering about it again is
because I just learned that Ben Ascrin,
who has been fighting for his life for
the better part of a month and some
change, is now needing a double lung
transplant, which is a very expensive
procedure, and has been denied by his
health insurance. So now his family has
had the result to crowdfunding to try
and get the funds together to pay for
this life-saving procedure that is
medically necessary for him to continue
living. It is storming so hard here,
even the heavens are angered by health
insurance. I don't know if you can hear
all of the rain crashing against my
window. It sounds like hail,
like bowling balls hitting it, and then
extreme thunder. But point is, this is
infuriating.
What do you pay health insurance for if
it won't try and cover you in a
lifesaving procedure? It is a scam. Its
entire business model relies on finding
ways of denying you coverage so they can
save money on the bottom line while
milking you dry your whole life
as you pay these premiums to them. It is
disgusting. I swear to God,
people that pedal fint are more ethical
and honest than health insurance
companies. Like there is nothing on this
planet that is more scummy and shady
than health insurance. I I genuinely
cannot believe the state that it's in.
I'll go ahead and briefly explain what's
happened to Ben Ascrin that's led to
needing this double lung transplant at
least briefly. As I understand it, he
was hospitalized with pneumonia. He was
in critical condition for a while but
started to make slight recovery
according to his family. Even got some
of his personality back. But in order to
live to survive, he is going to need the
lung transplant. So he is on the list
awaiting that. but has been denied
coverage from health insurance. And I
saw a lot of people speculating that,
oh, here's another case of a celebrity
superstar athlete blowing all of his
money, but that is not the case. His
family has come out to debunk those
rumors. It's not like he's blown through
all his money or anything. A lot of his
money is tied up in investments and
reinvesting into the sport, as well as
this just being extraordinarily
expensive to just shoulder on your own,
even with a ton of money in your back
pocket. It's one of the most expensive
surgeries there is and luckily health
insurance has come in here and just
went. So now there is no one to help
except for the community. So I'm going
to put a link to the fundraiser in the
description of this video. It is
unbelievable that that's what it comes
to. In order to survive, you have to
rely on the generosity of others instead
of the company that you pay for for the
sole purpose of trying to help you
survive in case of a situation like this
arising. It is despicable that this is
still happening and will continue
happening for the foreseeable future.
It's not like it looks like there's
going to be any sweeping improvements
done to health insurance anytime
soon. So, his family has started a
fundraiser to try and get donations so
that way they can cover the medical
expenses. I've seen quite a few fighters
come forward saying that they're going
to help cover it. Uh Dana White posted
on his story sharing the fundraiser, but
I don't know if he himself personally is
donating to it, which I found really odd
because Dana White drops like a couple
hundred,000 to like YouTubers just to be
nice to them yet. I haven't heard about
him himself donating for the Ben Asin
life-saving surgery. Of course, he's not
like required to or anything, but a few
hundred,000 to Dana White, that's like a
night of gambling for him. Anyway, I'll
stop blabbering about health insurance
being a scam, which it is. It is
a scam. This is just really sad. That's
uh really about it. See you.