[Music]
Have you ever wondered why Iran is today
considered to be an enemy of the West?
Certainly by US and British politicians
and by news journalists.
Since January 2002, the United States
has termed Iran part of something called
the axis of evil.
North Korea is a
regime arming with missiles and weapons
of mass destruction
while starving its citizens.
Iran aggressively pursues these weapons
and exports terror. While an unelected
few repress the Iranian people's hope
for freedom,
Iraq continues to flaunt its hostility
toward America and to support terror.
The Iraqi regime has plotted to develop
anthrax and nerve gas and nuclear
weapons for over a decade.
States like these and their terrorist
allies constitute an axis of evil,
arming to threaten the peace of the
world.
This wasn't always the case. When I was
born in the 1970s, Iran was actually a
close ally of the West. So, what
happened to change this situation? As
usual, the machinations of Britain and
the United States in interfering in
other countries played a big role.
Some time ago, I touched on some of this
interference when I covered the 1941
military coup in Iran, where the country
almost had a pro-Nazi government before
it was eliminated by a joint British
Soviet invasion.
In this video, I want to look more
closely at how Iran changed between the
establishment of its last royal dynasty,
the Palavi, in 1925, up to the overthrow
of that dynasty in 1979 and the creation
of the Islamic Republic of Iran,
ushering in a very different regime, a
regime that is still in power in Tehran
today.
Iran is one of the world's most ancient
civilizations, called for most of its
history Persia.
Once the great empire of the ancient and
the medieval world, modern Iran emerged
from the 18th century when an entity
called the sublime state of Iran was
founded in 1789 under the rule of the
Kajar dynasty, themselves Turkmen tribal
peoples. This dynasty had deposed the
last sha or king of the Zha dynasty
which had ruled most of contemporary
Iran and parts of Iraq, Armenia,
Azabaijan and Georgia as well.
In 1796, the Kajar leader Aga Muhammad
Khan Kajar was formerly crowned as Sha
of Iran.
Iran continued to develop throughout the
19th and 20th centuries, but the state
was threatened through most of its
existence by the expansion of the
Russian Empire.
During World War I, Iran was involved in
a series of conflicts with the Ottoman,
British, and Russian empires, costing
the lives of some 2 million Persian
civilians, mostly caused by the Armenian
genocide enacted by the Ottoman Turks
and the Persia famine of 1917 to 19.
The Kajar government became much
weakened and inevitably as I've
discussed in a previous video, this
dynasty was overthrown in a coup in 1921
and a new dynasty installed to power in
1925.
The new king was Razar Sha and his
dynasty was called the Palavi dynasty.
Razar Sha had been an army officer of
humble birth, leading a British runun
Persian cosac brigade during World War
I. And Raza used this military force to
seize power in Tehran, something the
British were very happy to support as it
sought client leaders that would assist
its own interests in the region.
Razar Sha became an outspoken admirer of
Hitler in the 1930s, straining his
relations with the British. It appears
Razer's admiration for Hitler stem
primarily from the Furer's humble
origins and rise to power which Razer
saw mirrored in himself.
When World War II broke out, Iran
remained neutral. However, following the
German invasion of the Soviet Union in
June 1941, the British wanted to supply
Stalin with weapons and material to keep
him in the war.
London wanted those arms and other
materials to be shipped on railways
through neutral Iran to the USSR.
They were very unhappy with the strong
German influence over Iran and so
Britain and the USSR jointly invaded on
the 25th of August 1941.
Iranian military resistance quickly
collapsed and in September Razar Sha was
forced to abdicate replaced as king by
his son Muhammad Razar.
The British actually wanted to put the
previous Kajar family back on the throne
in the form of Prince Hammed Mera, then
an officer in the British Royal Navy.
But the people seemed to want the Crown
Prince Muhammad Raza instead, and the
British very reluctantly accepted him.
The supply route to the Soviet Union
called the Persian corridor was thus
assured.
His father Razar Sha was exiled by the
British to Maitius.
Post war because Iran bordered the
Soviet Union. The Soviets became Iran's
enemy.
They had occupied parts of northern Iran
known as Iranian Azabaijan and Kurdistan
during World War II and they had tried
to establish their separatist
governments loyal to Moscow.
It also helped to fund the Iranian
Communist Party.
Red Army troops finally left Iran in
June 1946.
On the 11th of December 1946, the
Iranian army entered the formerly Soviet
controlled portions of northern Iran and
removed the puppet communist
governments.
The sha loved flying and spent huge sums
building up the Imperial Iranian Air
Force, Britain and the United States
supplying most of the aircraft. The sha
was also a major playboy. He divorced
his first wife and spent much time
trolling the nightclubs of Italy, Paris,
and London, living the high life with
various actresses.
It wasn't long before someone tried to
kill him. On the 4th of February 1949,
at a ceremony at Tehran University, the
Sha was grazed in the face by an
assassin's bullet. It was revealed
officially that his assassin was a
member of the Iranian Communist Party.
However, more research has shown that he
was probably from a fundamentalist
Islamic group.
The sha's second wife was half German,
half Iranian, and was allegedly only 16
years old when she was married to the
32-year-old Sha.
The real power in Iran in the 1950s was
the Anglo Iranian Oil Company, and the
emphasis should be placed on the word
Anglo.
Immensely profitable. Britain controlled
51% of the company since 1914
and in 1954 it would be renamed the
British Petroleum Company known today as
BP.
Britain reaped enormous profits from its
control of Iranian Oil and was loathed
to give them up. It also meant that
Britain remained a major player in the
postwar US dominated world. However, the
election of a very pro-Iranian prime
minister, Muhammad Moseday, in 1950
would throw a spanner into the works. A
nationalist, Mosed rallied parliament to
nationalize the Anglo Iranian oil
company, placing the Iranian government
on a collision course with London, who
would not sit back and allow Mosed to
destroy its profits, nor its preeminent
position in the region.
Washington D.C. was also becoming
concerned as President Harry S. Truman
was being briefed that a communist coup
was likely in Tehran. Paranoid
suspicions inherited by the incoming
administration of Dwight D. Eisenhower.
In fact, just before the 1952
presidential election, the British had
invited a senior CIA officer named
Kermit Roosevelt Jr. to London to
discuss what could be done about Mosed
and his government. Kermit Roosevelt was
a grandson of famous US President Teddy
Roosevelt and had been an OSS officer,
the forerunner of the CIA in World War
II. MI6 and the CIA decided on a joint
operation cenamed Ajax to remove Museday
from office and stop the nationalization
of Anglo Iranian oil.
Ajax was significant because it would be
the first of three such regime change
operations authorized by CIA director
Alan Dulles.
The second would be a coup in Guatemala
in South America in 1954 to depose the
democratically elected government there
and put in power a US puppet. And the
third and most infamous would be the
1961 Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba to
topple Fidel Castro. This last one
failing very badly.
Returning to Iran in 1953, President
Eisenhower and British Prime Minister
Sir Winston Churchill both backed
Operation Ajax.
However, Moseday had plenty of popular
support within Iran, and MI6 and the CIA
had to bribe various army officers to
stage the coup. Kermit Roosevelt
secretly briefed the Sha who was in on
the plot as well. The sha also received
a bribe of $1 million in cash for his
support.
The coup was executed on the 16th of
August 1953 with by the sha's order
general fazah zahedi appointed prime
minister in Muzaday's place. But the
coup actually didn't go as planned and
the sha was forced to flee to Baghdad in
Iraq and then to Rome to await the
outcome of events.
MI6 and the CIA tried again. In the
meantime, Iranian communists had turned
against Mosed.
Tehran was soon festoned with red flags
and statues of the sha were pulled down.
The conservative elements in the country
largely sided with the sha. The second
coup attempt against Mosed likewise
failed. General Zahedi said that he was
the prime minister, not Mosed as he had
been appointed by the sha. The CIA
passed on more hefty bribes and this
time pro-sh forces took to the streets.
Zahedi was rewarded with a payout of
$900,000
by Roosevelt from CIA funds and the sha
returned to Iran.
Mosed was arrested, tried and
imprisoned. However, some of the Iranian
elite disliked the behavior of the
sharp.
They said he was weak and vacasillating
and a coward. Opinions echoed by British
and US diplomats in this period.
However, the pro-western Prime Minister
Zahedi had the support of the army and
was seen as the strongman of Iran.
The United States forced the British
into a postcue oil consortium to control
Iranian oil, a global petroleum
industrial cartel called the Seven
Sisters that would, by the time of the
1973 oil crisis, control an astonishing
85% of the world's known oil reserves.
In Iran, the profits were now shared
50/50 between Anglo Iranian oil or BP
and the Iranian government. In the
meantime, the sha portrayed himself as
the savior of Iran, a modernizer and a
reformer. But in Iran, militant Islamic
clerics started to become prominent.
The sha survived an military coup
against him in February 1958.
And one of the problems associated with
this was that it made the sha very
suspicious of the United States as it
had emerged that the general heading the
coup had been having secret meetings
with US diplomats before the attempt.
After pulling out of a non-aggression
pack with the Soviet Union in 1959 after
President Eisenhower had threatened the
sha, Moscow responded by initiating a
major propaganda campaign against the
sha. Soviet leader Nikita Kushchov even
ordered the sha assassinated by the KGB.
Also in 1959, the sha recognized the
state of Israel by allowing an Israeli
trade office to open in Tehran. This was
effectively an embassy. This deeply
offended many throughout the Islamic
world.
Divorced for a second time, the sha
tried to marry Princess Berea Gabriella
of Seavoi, daughter of the last king of
Italy, Ombberto II, but Pope John the
23rd stepped in and prevented it.
A supporter of Richard Nixon, when Nixon
lost the 1960 election to John F.
Kennedy, the Sha had a poor relationship
with the new US president.
The sha suspected that Kennedy was
plotting to depose him.
Ayatollah Humeni was the most important
Islamic religious leader in Iran by the
1960s and he clashed with the sha in
1963 when the sha announced the
so-called white revolution a program of
land reform which would take away a lot
of land from Muslim clerics and give it
to the people nationalization of the
forests. The sale of state-owned
enterprises to private companies. votes
for women and the lifting of a ban of
non-Muslims holding public office in
Iran.
Humeni called some of these changes an
attack on Islam.
He argued that Christians, Jews, and
enemies of Islam could now be judges and
decide on things that affected Muslims.
Hmeni denounced the white revolution.
Hmeni also asserted that the sha was a
puppet of America and Israel. Riots
followed and 400 people died. Hmeni went
into exile for 14 years in Turkey, Iraq,
and France. However, in April 1965, a
second assassination attempt was made on
the sha at the Marble Palace in Tehran.
But imperial guards managed to kill the
assassin.
Marrying for a third time, the Sha, who
was a sexual obsessive, a playboy who
had numerous affairs and numerous sexual
partners, also spent vast amounts of his
time amassing a huge collection of cars
and planes.
In October 1967, he then elevated
himself from king to emperor, holding a
lavish ceremony in Tehran.
He organized huge ceremonies to
celebrate ancient Persian culture to
promote the non-Islamic identity of the
Iranian people.
His biggest celebration being in 1971 at
Persopoulos.
The sha did actually improve many
aspects of Iranian life, redirecting oil
profits into education and building
hospitals.
He also made Iran a tolerant place for
its Jewish minority. Under the sha, Iran
experienced a decade of doubledigit GDP
growth with the quality of life for
Iranians increasing across the board.
Foreign companies invested heavily in
Iran at this time.
Thus, during the 1970s oil crisis, the
sha announced that Iran would begin an
atomic nuclear energy policy which
caused tensions with President Richard
Nixon. The sha was seen not as a puppet
by the United States, but more as a
troublesome ally that they couldn't
easily control, certainly by the time of
President Carter's administration in
1977.
The sha however was becoming unpopular
abroad particularly among Iranian
students who accused him of being too
westernized even though they were
themselves studying in western liberal
universities.
This coalesed into calls for a
revolution and social change in Iran.
The sha deported over 60,000 Iraqis of
Iranian descent from Iran between 1968
and 1975.
And he was deeply distrustful of the
Bath party and its authoritarian
government in Iraq, created following
the overthrow and murder of King Fisizel
II in 1958.
War was brewing between Iran and Iraq
throughout the 1960s and 70s over many
issues, some territorial in nature.
Incredibly, during the 1970s oil crisis,
both Britain and France begged Iran for
loans to help their economies. The Sha,
mindful of how the power dynamics had
altered, loaned each country $1 billion.
The Sha's ego grew bigger and bigger.
However, the opposition of Ayatollah
Humeni and his supporters to the sha's
policies had not gone away. From October
1977, protests broke out in various
parts of the country.
Diagnosed with leukemia in 1974, the sha
spent long periods abroad having
treatment. As protests swept Iran, the
imperial court officials couldn't get
the sha to make decisions. He being
listless, depressed, and muddle-headed.
By 1978, it was clear to US officials
that the sha was dying. Some army units
behaved in a murderous manner when
confronting protesters, opening fire and
massacring civilians, which fueled the
growing Iranian revolution.
Strikes paralyzed the country, and by
October 1978, the terminally ill sh was
accusing the US and Britain of
organizing the demonstrations against
his rule. not helped by the sympathetic
tone of BBC news coverage towards the
protesters.
Many Iranians were led to believe that
Britain supported the revolution.
Next, oil workers went on strike,
shutting down oil production and the
huge revenues that came with it. The
revolution had a broad level of support
from Islamic groups to secular people
and far-left nationalists and Hmeni
presented himself as a moderate to unify
these factions in revolution.
On the 5th of November 1978, the sha
made a televised address promising to
make changes in line with the demands of
the revolutionaries. He freed all
political opponents from jail with this
merely galvanized the opposition and
alienated his remaining supporters.
Some generals were also now seeking an
accommodation with the revolutionaries.
On the 16th of January 1979, the sha
left Iran ostensibly for medical
treatment abroad, but what would prove
to be for the last time and within hours
all statues and symbols of his royal
house had been pulled down or destroyed.
By early February, Iran's government had
been swept away and replaced by Humeni.
And on the 30th to 31st of March 1979,
Humeni held a referendum to replace the
monarchy with an Islamic Republic. 98%
voted for an Islamic Republic.
Humeni would become in due course
supreme leader of a much changed Iran
and within a short time was in conflict
with the United States and at war with
Saddam Hussein in Iraq. Saddam Hussein
now becoming a US and British ally in
the region.
Iran remains an Islamic republic ruled
by Humeni's successor. As for the sha,
he fled first to Egypt, then to Morocco,
then onto Paradise Island in the
Bahamas, and then to Mexico. Henry
Kissinger pressured President Carter to
allow the sha to enter the United States
for medical treatment which he did on
the 22nd of October 1979.
The sha's presence in the US further
aggravated the US relationship with
Iran. Moving on to Panama, the sha's
presence there triggered riots.
In March 1980, the Sha returned to Egypt
where he died on the 27th of July 1980,
age 60, and was given a state funeral
and buried in a mosque in Cairo.
Many thanks for watching. Please
subscribe and share, and also visit my
audio book channel, War Stories with
Mark Felton. You can also help to
support both of my channels at PayPal
and Patreon. Details in the description
box below.
[Music]