[Music]
Look closely at this painting. Notice
anything familiar about the central
figure? Looks like Hitler, doesn't he?
This was painted in 1889, the same year
that Hitler was born.
It is titled The Wild Chase and depicts
the Tutonic legend of Wan, the mad
hunter, a personification of death and
destruction in Germanic mythology. He
rides at night, leaving a horror in his
wake. Many have suggested that Hitler
modeled his physical appearance as a man
on this painting, which he first saw at
the age of 13, leaving a deep impression
upon him.
Certainly the resemblance between the
figure in the painting and Hitler as a
young man of politics is
striking. We also know that Hitler
became obsessed with the artist and
proclaimed him to be his favorite
painter. That artist was France Ritter
Fonuk born simply France in 1863. He
rose to artistic prominence in the 1880s
first exhibiting in Munich in 1889 the
year of Hitler's birth.
He won a gold medal for this painting
entitled The Guardian of the Paradise,
which shows an angel holding a flaming
sword. This striking painting caused
Shook to become
famous. In 1893, he won further fame for
this, his best known work entitled The
Sin, a symbolist painting depicting Eve
with a large serpent wrapped around her
body. He would eventually create 12
versions of this
painting. Further success followed foruk
at the World's Colombia Exposition in
Chicago in 1893, earning another gold
medal and appointment to a royal
professorship in the Kingdom of
Bavaria. In 1905, he was enobbled being
appointed to the order of merit of the
Bavarian crown. His name changed to
France Ritter Fonuk. Ritter being
analogist to a knighthood in other
countries and in Bavaria at the time an
hereditary
title. As a professor, he chooed many
who had become very famous artists
including Paul
Clay and Vasili
Kandinski. Some of Fontook's paintings
are really dark. For example, this
titled Lucifer from
1890 showing the fallen angel Lucifer
cast out of heaven by God.
However, young Adolf Hitler, deeply
interested in high culture from an early
age and with aspirations to become an
artist, supposedly first laid his eyes
on Fontouk's the wow chase in around
1902 when he was 13 years old and living
in Leoning outside Lince with his
parents and siblings.
Hitler would apply to the Academy of
Fine Arts in Vienna for the first time
within 5 years in 1907 and he was busy
during the intervening period producing
drawings and paintings for as well as an
entrance examination. Hitler was
required to submit a pre-prepared
portfolio of his art to the
examiners. It is highly likely that
Hitler was exposed to Fonuk's work as
postcards of the artist's work were
widely circulated.
being at the height of his fame and
popularity. 13year-olds are notoriously
impressionable and work stayed in
Hitler's mind all the way through to
adulthood. So what attracted Hitler to
Fonuk's work? The style is of course
striking and powerful and Hitler also
had an early interest in Germanic
folklore. The wild chase being an
excellent example of such subject
matter.
Some have seen the painting as
prophesizing the rise of Hitler, a grim
Germanic god-like figure leading an army
of darkness that devastated the world.
But the reality is that Hitler was so
affected by the power of this painting
and the central figure that he
consciously physically remodeled himself
on the figure as he grew into manhood
and particularly as he entered politics.
the same hairstyle, the same intense
eyes, the same stern face, the same
mustache. Even the way he physically
projected himself as a messianic-like
figure, tormented and intense, but a
leader to be followed and
respected. Germanic myth and imagery
always played a strong role in German
society.
We see Hitler striking poses very
similar to the figure in this painting.
His speeches from the early part of his
political rise, seemingly consciously
copying what he saw in Fonuk's painting.
Hitler was also a very strong believer
in fate and destiny. Perhaps he saw his
destiny in this painting painted as it
was in the year of his birth. A direct
link between the image and the real
person that took on the image of Wan in
his rise to political
power. When Hitler gained power in
Germany, he began amassing his own art
collection. And at his Munich apartment,
Hitler would display one of the 12
versions of Fonuk's the sin. It was
found there by US troops in
1945. Another of Fontouk's paintings,
Medusa, caused him to exclaim when he
first laid eyes upon it, "Those are the
eyes of my mother. Make of that what you
will." What we can say is that Hitler
was deeply affected by Fonto's art, and
in particular the wild chase. Is it
simply coincidence that he ended up
looking uncannily like the figure of
Walton in the painting, particularly
once he entered politics when his
appearance began to change?
Wan is a restless wanderer who creates
unrest and stirs up strife. Now here,
now there, and works magic. The later
Christians viewed him as the
devil. France Rita Fonuk lived to see
the rise of Hitler, passing away in
Munich in August 1928 at the age of 65.
Perhaps he also saw in the leader of the
Nazi party the figure that he had
painted all those years
earlier. The wild chase is currently in
the collection of the state gallery at
Lenbach House in Munich along with many
Fonstuk
paintings. Many thanks for watching.
Please subscribe and share and also
visit my audio book channel, War Stories
with Mark Felton. You can also help to
support both of my channels at PayPal
and Patreon. Details in the description
box below.
[Music]