[Music]
At the conclusion of episode 1 in this
series, former SS Lieutenant Colonel
Ukim Piper had been released from prison
early following his conviction at the
Malmade Massacre War crimes trial.
Using contacts he had with the Vafaness
Veterans Organization, HYAG, Piper had
managed to find work at Porsche in West
Germany working in American sales.
However, another allegation of war
crimes, this time the Boves massacre in
September 1943 in Italy that I mentioned
in episode 1, came to the four in 1964.
Though a lengthy inquiry did not produce
any charges against Piper, Italians
working for Porsche complained to
management and Piper was let go. He
moved to another job, this time in sales
at Folksvaren in Reutling.
But the shadow of war crimes accusations
committed by LSSH troops under his
command from the war also caused him to
be dismissed.
Neither car firm wanted such people
associated with them. was bad for
business in the new Germany.
However, some years before losing these
jobs, Piper had taken the extraordinary
step of purchasing a small plot of land
in eastern France near the village of
Trave, 12 km west of the town of Vizour.
In 1959, Piper had a small house built
on the plot in woodland on the bank of
the river.
War Thunder is the most comprehensive
vehicle combat game ever made. Play more
than 2,000 tanks, aircraft, helicopters,
and ships in dynamic combined arms PVP
battles. As an historian, I appreciate
that the vehicles in War Thunder span
over 100 years of development from the
1920s to the present day. Every vehicle
is incredibly detailed and modeled. War
Thunder now has an allnew mobile version
available on iOS and Android, allowing
you to take the battlefield wherever you
go. Play War Thunder now on PC,
PlayStation, Xbox, and mobile devices
using the links in the video description
or pin comment. New players and those
who haven't played in 6 months receive a
large bonus free pack for PC and
consoles using my personalized link,
including multiple premium vehicles,
premium account, boosters, and much
more.
Piper used the home as a holiday home
until in 1972 he moved there permanently
with his wife.
Piper evidently knew that his presence
in France might cause him trouble, for
the house was designed with security in
mind. Firstly, it backed onto a river,
making approaching from the rear of the
property very difficult.
Secondly, it was hidden in thick
woodland, couldn't be seen from the main
road,
and any visitors along the track to the
house would have to pass by kennels
where Piper kept two dogs, and their
barking would give advanced warning of
anyone approaching. From the main road
to the tree line, where Piper's house
was hidden, was completely open ground,
affording Piper a good observation of
visitors during daylight.
But the very woodland where the house
was situated would screen anyone
covertly approaching the property,
particularly at night.
Piper's income at this time was derived
from two sources. His military pension
and translation fees, as Piper
translated military history books for a
German publisher. His grown-up children
and family friends visited occasionally,
and the pipers kept themselves to
themselves.
Considering in 1972 the war had only
been over for 27 years, it was an odd
decision to move to a country that had
suffered greatly from German occupation
and where the SS were associated with
brutality, massacres, and organizations
like the Gestapo.
However, Piper's nearest neighbor was
another former SS officer, a man the
surname Kettlehood, who had been an SS
artillery officer whose division had
also been responsible for war crimes in
Italy.
Kettlehood lived in a large
Bavarianstyle house not far from Piper's
more discreet property. In fact, the
only evidence that Piper's house was
there were two things,
a post box and power lines on poles.
Word soon got around the local area that
Germans lived in the two properties.
Former SS officers to boot. In 1972,
plenty of people in the region had taken
part in the war and some older
resistance members would still have been
about, not to mention younger people,
often extremely left-wing or even
communists who had great hatred for
people like Piper.
Many have suggested that Piper was
extremely arrogant to have assumed that
such a high-profile SS veteran as
himself implicated in multiple war
crimes and imprisoned for one could move
to their area and live as if nothing had
ever happened.
For locals who had lost loved ones or
comrades to German occupation forces and
security units, Piper's presence was a
huge red rag. Piper, for his part, had
little contact with the locals. His wife
would go into the village for groceries.
Piper also had weapons at the house, a
hunting rifle, and a pistol, plus as I
mentioned, two dogs at the property. On
the 18th of April 1975 in Paris, eight
hooded men held a press conference. They
warned that until the West German
government ratified the FrancoGerman
Agreement on the prosecution of war
criminals, they would be executed by
direct methods.
Things remained quiet until 1976 when a
local iron munger in Vulu, who sold
Piper nails, wire fencing, and so on
came upon Piper's name printed in an
East German book that he owned called
the Brown Book. The Iron Munger was a
communist and the Brown Book was a
deliberate attempt by East Germany to
humiliate West Germany postwar by
showing just how many suspected and
convicted Nazi war criminals were living
free in the West. The entry for Piper
gave details of his World War II
activities.
Next, an article appeared in the French
communist newspaper Lumenity questioning
how the government had allowed someone
like Piper to reside in France.
Next, slogans began to be painted on
roads around Trave that read Piper SS in
large white letters.
Leaflets were printed and posted through
letter boxes of the villages, and Piper
himself found notes in his own letter
box threatening letters.
There were also anonymous threatening
phone calls to his house.
Evidently, a concerted campaign was
underway to try and intimidate Piper
into moving out of France for his own
good. Naturally, Piper was concerned,
but he seems to have downplayed any
threat, painting it just as nonviolent
harassment that might blow over.
On the 13th of July, Piper's wife went
to West Germany to stay with friends for
a few days, leaving Piper alone at the
house.
At some point very late on the 13th of
July or early on the 14th, a group of
armed men in a car drove up the track to
Piper's house and surrounded it. Police
found an incendurary device outside the
property, showing that this group
intended to firebomb Piper's house.
Whether they also intended to murder him
is open to conjecture, but it was clear
to police afterwards that Piper had
exchanged fire with his asalants.
A conflration had begun when a petrol
bomb had been thrown through a
downstairs window. Piper's charred
corpse was found amongst debris in the
living room.
Police recovered Piper's wristwatch and
two weapons.
Outside the house, the police found a 22
rifle which had recently been loaned to
Piper by his SS neighbor, Kettle Hood.
It was lying on the house as terrace and
had been fired several times, indicating
that Piper had first confronted the
group outside his property. It was clear
to police that Piper's body had fallen
from the first floor, that is the second
floor to our US viewers, as the fire
destroyed the floor timbers and
collapsed as Piper lay among those
burned timbers.
He was found with a US Smith and Wesson
38 revolver, plus 13 boxes of
cartridges, most of which had cooked off
in the fire.
An autopsy found that Piper's lungs had
traces of smoke in them, indicating that
he was alive when the fire started. He
had no visible bullet wounds, but other
injuries could not be determined due to
the state of the body. The corpse's
teeth match those of Yuim Piper.
The two dogs were later found dead, one
shot with a 6.35 mm bullet in the head.
The fire was reported at 2:30 a.m. on
the 14th of July, and the house was
mostly destroyed before firefighters
eventually arrived from Vizourul.
A simple enough scenario of the last
minutes of Piper's life can be guessed
at from the available evidence.
According to the French newspaper Leur,
the next day an anonymous phone call was
received from a group called the
Avengers, who claimed to have killed
Piper. That same day, Piper's wife and
two daughters visited the ruins of the
property, collected what belongings they
could, and left the town without
comment.
After a period of silence regarding the
killing, French Justice Minister Leanu
said that the authorities would make all
possible efforts to punish whoever was
responsible. But although an extensive
investigation was conducted by the
regional police and many suspects were
questioned, no one was ever charged with
a crime. The case remains officially
unsolved to this day, though I suspect
local people knew full well who killed
the 61-year-old SS Colonel. The people
have kept quiet up to the present day,
which is understandable.
Piper's body was later interred at the
family plot in Lansburg in West Germany.
Play War Thunder now on PC, PlayStation,
Xbox, and mobile devices using the links
below. New and returning players will
receive a large free bonus pack on PC
and consoles using my personalized link,
including multiple premium vehicles,
premium account, boosters, and much
more. War Thunder. Get it now.
Many thanks for watching. Please
subscribe and share, and also visit my
audio book channel, War Stories with
Mark Felton. You can also help to
support both of my channels at PayPal
and Patreon. Details in the description
box below.