[Music]
When we think about the last month of
World War II in Europe and the German
armed forces, the impression given is
that the German army had been reduced to
exhausted and threadbear divisions,
barely able to resist the steamrollering
juggernaut of Allied armies surging ing
into the heart of Germany from east and
west. This picture is fairly accurate.
And on the Western Front in particular,
due to the strains of fighting to stop
the Soviet assault in the east, the
threadbear German forces facing the
American, British, Canadian, French, and
Polish forces had become very weak and
illequipped. The best equipment and the
best units were of course sent east.
The German defeat in the Arden offensive
by January 1945 had witnessed much of
the best remaining equipment in the west
squandered and had also shown that the
new Vox Grenadier infantry divisions
often lack the experience and leadership
of older units and paid a heavy price in
casualties.
The manpower and equipment shortages
were further exacerbated by Hitler's
idiotic refusal to allow Army Group B to
withdraw to more defensive positions
once the Anglo-American armies crossed
the Ryan River in March 1945, dooming it
to encirclement and destruction in the
Ruer Pocket. A defeat that cost the
Germans about
360,000 men killed, wounded, and taken
prisoner, the bulk being prisoners, and
basically ending any proper organized
resistance against the Allies on the
Western Front as the remaining armies
were strained to the maximum, attempting
to keep some kind of line in order and
allowing the Allies to begin to advance
fairly rapidly across Germany towards
the German capital of Berlin.
However, the following story will
demonstrate that even in the last three
weeks of the war, the Germans were able
to spring surprises on the Western Front
and win tactical victories despite the
apparent poor quality and equipment of
its last military
formations. The Allies learned that
German forces could still fight with
skill and determination in the defense
of their homeland and inflict sharp
lessons on those that underestimated
them.
One such unit was the Shanho Infantry
Division. One of the last divisions
formed as the Reich
collapsed. Formed on the 30th of March
1945 from amalgamating the battle
destroyed remnants of the 340th and
167th Fox Grenadier Divisions. It also
received the 412th Fox Artillery Corps.
However, its infantry companies were
largely made up of men from officer
cadet schools in military district 11
and some spare Luftvafer troops, many of
whom were in fact decorated veterans who
were also absorbed into the infantry.
Also added was the fuselier company from
what was left of the Potam Infantry
Division.
The Shanhorse Division was arranged as a
so-called 1945 Infantry Division, a new
type of unit making use of lots of
firepower to make up for a shortage of
personnel. Was in fact the last stage,
if you like, of the Folks Grenadier
Division. The division had three
Grenadier regiments. 80% of the
Grenaders were officer cadets, trainee
NCOs, or other cadetses, plus their
instructors. The term officer cadet is a
little misleading. Though a great
majority were of course 17 18 year olds,
some were seasoned ordinary soldiers who
had been sent on officer courses before
being commissioned as lit nuts. Many of
them were well decorated and of course
the instructors from these schools
tended also to be very experienced
officers and NCOs's with plenty of
combat experience and medals to show for
it. And they knew how to command and
organize extremely well. Having such
experienced soldiers leading even raw
recruits with a minimal of training
would ensure that many were turned into
good soldiers who were often keen to do
well despite their
inexperience. The Grenadier regiments
were reasonably well equipped, certainly
in small arms and handheld anti-tank
weapons. Overwhelmingly, the men were
armed with Mouser K98K boltaction
rifles.
But at least one company in each
battalion had the new and innovative
STG-44 assault rifle. Both MG34 and MG42
machine guns provided fire support. And
of course, the men had plenty of Panza
Fousts and Panza Shrek anti-tank
weapons. The battalions also had mortars
and a few anti-tank guns were
distributed to the regiments.
Armored support was of course vital, but
by this stage in the war, finding
sufficient vehicles and fuel was a
serious
problem. The Shanhorse Division was
assigned a Panza Abtailong or tank
hunting unit that consisted of seven
Hetsza tank destroyers.
In total, the division was under 6,000
men strong, about a third the size of a
comparable US or British infantry
division, and had little organic armored
strength and minimal artillery
support. US forces pushed on hard
towards the Ela River, Germany's last
line of defense in the west before
Berlin itself. On the 12th of April
1945, the Shaunhorse Division was
ordered as part of the German 12th Army
to occupy defensive positions in the
area around the town of Barbie, halfway
between the cities of Magdabborg and
Desowl on the west bank of the
Ela. On the 11th of April, the Shan
horse division had received some welcome
reinforcements when Uptailong 1170 was
attached to it consisting of
19US and 12U assault
guns. The same time US forces prepared
to make crossings to the Ela at three
points in this area. The German 12th
Army deployed the Shanho and Ulic
vonhutin infantry divisions to hold the
bridge head on the west bank of the Ela
around Desowl with a third division
holding the east bank of the river far
to the north of Mghddeborg supplemented
by local Fogderm homeg guard
battalions. The US second armored
division had established a small bridge
head on the east bank of the ela south
of Magdabberg. This bridge head now
became the focus of German 12th Army
commander Gennal Falter who ordered the
commanding officer of the Shanhorse
division Ganahal Litnand Hinrich Guts to
eliminate it as soon as
possible before daylight on the 13th of
April 1945 a battalion of the US 30th
division's 119th Infantry Regiment
crossed into the second armored bridge
head bringing the US forces there to
three battalions but engineers had yet
to complete a treadway bridge to allow
tanks, tank destroyers, and anti-tank
guns to cross to the east side of the
river, leaving the US forces very
vulnerable to a German
counterattack. The crossing point was
under sporadic German shelling. As soon
as it became light, the German fire
increased
dramatically using many of the big guns
from the Luftvafa flack batteries that
protected Mugdeborg.
US artillery fired back and smoke was
laid without much
effect. But the Americans called for
fighter bomber support. None
materialized. In fact, the US advance
had been so fast that they had outrun
their fighter cover. The bases now being
far behind the US front
lines. By the afternoon, US engineers
had built a Treadway pontoon bridge to
within 25 yards of the eastern shore.
But then German shells wrecked
everything. Second Armored's commanding
officer, Major General White, ordered
the bridge head
abandoned. Focus shifted three miles
upstream to the sight of a bridge
already blown by the Germans at
Shernbec.
Three US infantry battalions moved up
and by the morning of the 14th of April,
company L119th Infantry Regiment and
portions of a battalion from the 41st
Armored Infantry Regiment had pushed 2
miles over the Ela to the town of
Elbanau, while another armored infantry
regiment unit had chased 250 Germans
from the riverside village of
Grunavalda.
The Americans were busy digging in
around the perimeter of the new bridge
head whilst bridging operations got
underway. It was here that the Shanhorse
division struck. One Grenadier battalion
was ordered to assault the US bridge
head, supplemented by assault guns and a
handful of Panther
tanks. The Germans attacked just as dawn
broke, catching the Americans offguard.
The Americans and the bridge head
outnumbered the Germans by some 3 to
one. It is usual military doctrine that
attacking forces outnumber the enemy by
3 to one. So the Germans were taking a
bit of a chance here. The Germans
advanced from Gomean, hitting the US
positions at Elbanau and a second wing
striking almost simultaneously at
Grunavalda. The entire German force
named KG grouper Ringelheim after its
commanding
officer. First to be hit was Third
Battalion, 119th Infantry, followed
moments later by Third Battalion, 41st
Armored Infantry
Regiment. The 119th's Company I reported
German tanks to its right, but having no
bazookas, they couldn't stop them. At
the same time, Company L reported six
German tanks or tank destroyers, two 20
mm flakvarens, and about a battalion or
so of German infantry attacking from
east and northeast.
Company L's first platoon dug in on the
extreme eastern edge of Elbanau engage
one German column. The German armor and
infantry swinging to attack them from
the north in the process overrunning
company
L. The US battalion commander ordered
his remaining companies to fall back on
company K's positions located in woods
south of the town. But the order came
too late. Most of the men went to ground
inside the town. Company L was cut off
and Company I was split up with some of
the GIs taken prisoner. The battalion
command post group and all available men
were sent forward to try and give
support. The German armor was seen and
fired at, particularly by US artillery
on the opposite bank, but kept moving,
throwing the guns off target. In the
meantime, second armor division
headquarters promised to send US tanks
to
help. The second German attack struck
the third battalion, 41st armored
infantry regiment at Gronavalda shortly
after the Germans had hit
Elbanel. It was wellcoordinated,
indicating that the training instructors
now commanding the German attack knew
their business. The German armor had
passed through the 119th Infantry's
positions and now smashed into the 41st
Armored Infantry Regiments positions,
scattering many of the US platoon.
However, at 5:00 a.m., Company I was
assaulted by three Panther tanks with
supporting German infantry. The
Americans held their fire until the
German force was only 150 yards away
from their Ford foxholes, then opened up
with everything they had. But
unfortunately, their bazooka round
simply bounced off the armor of the
advancing
Panthers. The Shanhorse division also
broke a rule of war. In some places,
they place bunches of recently captured
Americans in front of the armor and the
infantry and forced them on at gunpoint
towards the US positions. The Germans
fired tank guns and machine guns through
the ranks of the US prisoners at the
American positions, and the Americans
couldn't effectively return fire for
fear of hitting their own men. The US
fell back towards the river, leaprogging
as they went with platoon providing
covering fire.
Company G was also overrun with men
fleeing past the battalion command post.
The company had fought as long as it
could, but it was destroyed one foxhole
at a time with the survivors making it
to the river. Communications between the
different battalions, companies, and
platoon in the bridge head broke down
completely. At one point 50 to 100
German infantry attacked southeast along
the river and came into the left rear of
the third battalion 41st armored
infantry regiment's command group which
consisted of some 20 officers and men.
The command personnel formed a perimeter
and defended themselves using four heavy
machine guns and an 81 mm mortar driving
the Germans back north of Grunavalda.
[Music]
The order was received from combat
command B's second armored division to
evacuate the bridge head. Everyone was
ordered to fall back to Grunavalda, form
a perimeter defense, and hold
it. By 11:30 a.m., the battalion of the
41st Armored Infantry Regiment no longer
existed as a coherent fighting force,
just as isolated groups.
Engineers work feverishly to repair the
damaged ferry cable and ramp, but the
cable was cut again by German artillery
fire. Tanks and more infantry were
needed to hold the bridge head, but
orders were given to evacuate the bridge
head using DUKWS.
The US perimeter at Grunavalda was
collapsed as the companies evacuated in
stages under the protective fire of
American tanks and tank destroyers on
the west bank of the Elber and everyone
who could be got out did so by 400 p.m.
Some GIs managed to cross the river
after
dark. The casualty role was heavy. Large
numbers of Americans were recorded as
either killed or missing with many of
the latter dead. But the bulk of US
losses were men taken prisoner, wounded
and unwounded. 10 vehicles were also
lost. The Germans had captured,
according to later estimates officially
published by the US Army, over 300
GIS. For the Shanhorse division,
smashing the US bridge head was a major
victory and indicated that even in the
last weeks of World War II in Europe,
such ad hoc German divisions could still
hand out bloody noses to the enemy.
In this case, the lack of US anti-tank
guns or armor in the bridge head ensured
that the flexibly handled German tanks
and infantry managed to overwhelm an
enemy force three times its
number. Many thanks for watching. Please
subscribe and share and also visit my
audio book channel, War Stories with
Mark Felton. You can also help to
support both of my channels on PayPal
and Patreon. Details in the description
box below.