[Music]
If your only information about the
sinking of the Titanic comes from the
James Cameron film of the same name, you
probably know that following the
Titanic's collision with an iceberg in
the North Atlantic on the 14th of April
1912, the captain and crew made
desperate and heroic efforts to save the
ship, but that these efforts were futile
as too many watertight compartments have
been hauled and the great ship was
doomed to sink.
The 1958 film, A Night to Remember,
which I personally think is the better
movie and certainly the truer to what
actually occurred on the night of the
14th to 15th of April, 1912, covers in
much more detail the efforts of Titanic
to contact nearby ships, and how one
came to her assistance, though
tragically too late to avert huge loss
of
life. Once Captain Smith realized his
ship was doomed, he ordered the wireless
room to begin calling for assistance
using the new Morse code call
[Music]
SOS. Many vessels responded, but though
only about 10 mi away, the passenger
liner Californian remained silent and
unresponsive to Titanic's urgent calls.
The reasons appear to have been that
unlike Titanic, the Little Californian
only had one wireless operator whose
shift ended minutes before the Titanic
began sending its SOS, so it never
received her calls. Also, the officers
on watch and the captain ignored the
white distress rockets the Titanic began
firing, thinking they were company
signals and that Titanic was signaling
to another White Star Line ship instead
of requiring assistance.
The next closest ship was the Lina RMS
Carpathia, some 58 mi from Titanic when
its wireless room received the SOS. Her
master, Captain Arthur Rostrren,
immediately ordered his ship to make
maximum revolutions towards the
Titanic's position, and a night to
remember shows just how determined
Rostrren was to save the Titanic's
passengers. Unfortunately though, he
pushed the Carpathia to its maximum
speed limit. The distance was just too
great, and the ship didn't reach the
Titanic's last report of position until
4:00 a.m. on the 15th of April, 1 and
1/2 hours after the Titanic had
sunk. The Titanic took over 1,500 people
with her, most dying of cardiac arrest
or hypothermia in the freezing water.
The Carpathia spent 4 and 1/2 hours
locating the Titanic's surviving
lifeboats and taking off the cold and
traumatized
survivors. Every preparation to receive
survivors had been made by the captain
and crew of the Carpathia, and the
Titanic survivors were well cared for.
In total, Rostran rescued 202 first
class, 115 secondass, and 178 thirdclass
passengers, plus four officers, and 206
Titanic crew. Then, at 9:00 a.m., with
705 survivors aboard, the Carpathia
sailed for New York City, the original
final destination of the Doomed Titanic.
Slowed by fog and thunderstorms, the
Carpathia finally arrived in New York on
the evening of the 18th of April,
[Music]
1912. During the period between rescue
and arrival in New York, some of the
surviving first and secondass passengers
from Titanic formed the Titanic
Survivors Committee aboard Carpathia.
The aim of these wealthier survivors was
to raise a general fund to aid the now
completely destitute thirdclass or
steerage survivors who were poor
immigrants to America who had lost aside
from family members all their worldly
possessions during the sinking of the
Titanic. During the few days aboard the
Carpathia, the committee raised $10,000,
a not inconsiderable sum at the time.
Once ashore in America, the Titanic
Survivors Committee met to distribute
funds to survivors. But it also felt
that the captain and crew of the
Carpathia required recognition for their
rescue efforts. To this end, money was
found to create a special medal to be
awarded to all members of Carpathia's
crew. These medals are today worth a
small fortune and occasionally come up
for auction in Britain and the US.
Chair of the committee was the
irreressible Margaret Brown. The
multi-millionaires s known to history as
the unsinkable Molly Brown. The New York
firm of Digz and Clust was contracted to
manufacture the medals. And as many of
the medals are found today in Tiffany
boxes, that company may also have been
involved. The medals identical in size
and design were manufactured in gold,
silver, and bronze. Gold for Captain
Rostrren, the purser, surgeon, chief
steward, chief engineer, and second
engineer of
Carpathia. Silver medals were awarded to
Carpathia's junior officers and leading
rates and bronzed crewmen. The obverse
of the medal depicts Carpathia amongst
icebergs and lifeboats with an elaborate
border of nautical motifs. The reverse
carried the following inscription.
Presented to the captain, officers, and
crew of RMS Carpathia in recognition of
gallant and heroic services from the
survivors of the SS Titanic, April 15th,
1912. The medal has a looped suspension
ring and hangs from a maroon ribbon. It
is likely that more were manufactured
than were issued as replacements to
cover losses or damage medals. Sources
suggest that 14 gold, 110 silver, and
180 bronze medals were presented to the
Carpathus crew. I mentioned that these
tangible connections to the Titanic
tragedy are very valuable. Bronze medals
sell between 32 and £5,000.
Silver medals are worth between 12 and
£15,000 while the very scarce gold ones
fetch between 35 and
£45,000, sometimes more depending on who
they belong
to. The Titanic Survivors Committee also
presented Captain Rostrren with a fine
engraved silver loving cup. This object
being auctioned in Boston, Massachusetts
in 2014, achieving $198,000.
The Carpathia, no longer under Captain
Rostrren, was sunk by a German hubot in
1918. Captain Rostrren received, in
addition to the Titanic medal in gold, a
Congressional Gold
Medal. Anna medal from the Liverpool
shipwreck and Humane Society. He served
on as a Royal Naval Reserve Officer in
World War I, commanding troop ships, and
after the war returned to command ocean
liners. In 1926, he was appointed a
knight commander of the Order of the
British Empire, becoming Sir Arthur
Rostran. He died in 1940, age 71, and is
buried today in the graveyard at West
End Parish Church in
Southampton. Many thanks for watching.
Please subscribe and share, and check
out my other Titanic videos, which are
linked in the end screen to this video.
You can also help to support both of my
channels at PayPal and Patreon. Details
in the description box below.