[Music]
In 1945, no one thought the defeated
Germany would ever be allowed armed
forces again. Certainly not within just
10 years of Hitler's death.
Germany was divided and that division
eventually led to two German militaries
coming into existence. One in West
Germany and one in East
Germany. The process of rearming the
Germans had actually begun quite quickly
after the war due to the exigencies of
the new cold war. The two Germanies
would play their part on both sides of
the iron curtain. In the east, the
Soviets had formed the Barrack People's
Police in 1948, a paramilitary force
that would form the basis for the new
Nazal Folk Army or National People's
Army founded along Soviet lines in 1956.
In the west, the Germans were asked to
create a border force, the
Bundeskenshutz in 1951. Its look and
equipment very close to the wartime
German army charged with helping the
Allied occupation powers patrol the
border with East Germany. But it wasn't
a true national army. Recognizing that
the new Federal Republic of Germany or
West Germany would need a proper army to
help defend itself, particularly from
the Soviets, the Allied powers decided
to permit the creation of a new army,
navy, and air force, collectively called
the Bundesphere, which came into
existence in November 1955. The 70th
anniversary will be celebrated later
this year.
Everyone was very sensitive about the
Nazi period for reasons that need no
explanation here, but they would need
experienced officers to run the new
army. And as I covered several years ago
in a detailed video, they had to employ
many of Hitler's old generals, colonels,
and other officers in command and
training
positions. One problem that faced the
Bundesphere was what to do about World
War II decorations and medals. A large
majority of its new officer corps and
NCOs's had earned gallantry and
meritorious service awards in the late
unpleasantness, not for political
reasons, but primarily for battlefield
prowess and leadership. Was it right to
deny them and also retired veterans in
Germany the right to wear their wartime
medals? So, a commission was founded
that looked at the problem and came up
with a simple solution. simply denazify
the medals and badges by removing the
offending swastikers and make fresh
versions authorized for wear by serving
members of the armed forces and veterans
alike. So from 1957 onwards, World War
II decorations began to appear on the
uniforms of Germany's new military, and
the Knights cross holders and other
decorated men could show their
experience and service publicly.
So let's look at the most important
gallantry and meritorious service awards
pre and post 1957. Starting with that
most august of decorations, the Knight's
Cross or the Iron Cross. for all these
comparisons. On the left is the World
War II era award and on the right the
post 1957 award
[Music]
The 1957 changes were not limited to
just the top awards. The myriad of
qualification badges worn by World War
II German personnel was similarly
denazified. Here we have some examples.
[Music]
The denazification was also extended to
some campaign service medals, primarily
the Eastern Front
Medal. Regarding the awards of the Nazi
party and the SS, they remain banned and
no denified versions were produced and
no permission was given to wear any such
awards. Here are some examples of
forbidden awards.
In order for the Bundesphere to be in
step with other NATO militaries in
ordinary uniform, these various World
War II crosses, medals, and badges were
assigned ribbons and were collectively
worn as ribbon bars above the left
breast pocket, as in the British and
United States armies. The largest ribbon
being assigned to the Knight's Cross as
we see
here. Only on very special occasions in
full dress uniform did World War II
Bundesphere veterans wear the redesigned
1957 versions of their awards in World
War II style that is pinned to pockets
and so
on. Thanks for watching. Please
subscribe and share. Also visit my audio
book channel, War Stories with Mark
Felton. You can also help to support
both of my channels at PayPal and
Patreon. Details in the description box
below.